- - Lawas Airport resumes operation

Lawas Airport resumes operation 

Posted on August 26, 2011, Friday 

MIRI: Lawas Airport resumed operation at 10.45am yesterday, some 19 hours after it was temporarily closed after a MASwings Twin Otter (DHC6) airicraft veered off the runway upon landing.

MASwings when contacted said the airport recorded two incoming and outcoming flights from Miri yesterday, two flights short from the daily six flights from Miri.

The first and second incoming flights touched down at 10.45am and 2.50pm respectively.

Both flights took off one hour later after touch down.

“We have to reschedule the timing for our flights as investigations are still being carried out on the ill-fated aircraft that crashed landed yesterday (Wednesday),” said the spokeperson.

Both MASwings and Malaysia Airlines (MAS) and the Department of Civil Aviation (DCA) are carrying out the investigation. The managing director of MASwing, Datuk Captain Mohd Nawawi Awang and the airline’s Head of Security were among those conducting the investigation.

In the incident which occured at 3.30pm Wednesday, the  aircraft from Miri veered off the runway after touchdown at the Lawas airport.

However, all 16 passengers and two crew – the pilot and co-pilot – were safe.

Meanwhile former Limbang Member of Parliament, Mutang Tagal expressed concern over the number of ‘near misses’involving planes plying rural routes in the state, which are mostly mountaineous.

He believed that the 19-seater DHC-6 Twin-Otter aircrafts  currently in service were well over 20 years old.

“It is ‘the writing on the wall’ calling for the old planes to be replaced.

“Why should the rural people be deprived of a brand new planes? Many a times, I have sat in Twin Otter’s that were leaking during heavy rains” Mutang said when contacted in Kuala Lumpur yesterday.

He said although he appreciated the good job done by MAS in maintaining these aircraft but the old planes should be replaced to avert accidents that could jeapardise the lives of both passengers and crew.

  

Most Read Posts Community Links Affiliates 

This service is provided on BorneoPost online standard 

Copyright 2010-2011 BorneoPost Online. All Rights Reserved.