 Welcome back, 
| 
| 
| 
| 
| 
NEWS 
LATEST: 

THE MOLE POLL 
UK Riots - Will inbound tourists soon forget ? 

Yes 
No

   
15 AUG 
Adjust font size:   
  
Air safety chiefs investigate 'near-miss' over Glasgow 

Air safety chiefs are investigating the possible near collision of a passenger jet and a glider over Glasgow Airport.

No further details of the incident have been released, but the Civil Aviation Authority has taken urgent steps to make the airspace over Glasgow more secure.

It announced today that it will reclassify the Glasgow Control Area from Class E to Class D from September 16 as an interim safety measure.

The CAA said the fast track process to reclassify a control area was reserved specifically for use 'where a clear and present threat to public safety is identified'.

All airspace in the UK is given a classification level to determine what type of aircraft is allowed to use it, what equipment it needs on board and what level of licence and training the pilot requires.
The lowest classification can be used by any aircraft, including glider, but the highest is reserved for commercial aircraft.

A CAA spokesman said: "Although the incident was not classified as of being a risk to either aircraft, we have decided to raise the airspace level in that area to help prevent any future incident.

"It means aircraft have to have slightly more equipment and air traffic control oversight is increased."

The incident, which happened on July 23, is described as "an airprox", which is defined by the CAA as "a situation in which, in the opinion of a pilot or controller, the distance between aircraft, as well as their relative positions and speed, have been such that the safety of the aircraft was, or may have been, compromised".

It is being investigated by the UK Airprox Board.

By Linsey McNeill
 

  
  
 

RELATED STORIES 02/12/2010 21/10/2009 18/11/2008 06/02/2007 
 

MORE 15 AUG BREAKING NEWS 
  

BOOKMARK with Digg, Facebook, Reditt... 
  
  
   
  
  
  

Categories:   Airline 

  
USER COMMENTS 
  
  
  
  
  
  
ADVERTISEMENT 
30 August, 2011 23 August, 2011 22 August, 2011 18 August, 2011 17 August, 2011 
Meet the TravelMole community 
Are you listed? This directory of TravelMole users is a valuable source of information about who is who in the travel and tourism industry. Create your own listing and join the TravelMole network - It's free! 
  
           
      
TravelMole - The Online Community for the Travel and Tourism Industry 
© TRAVELMOLE LTD. 2011 
. . .
. . . 
Dear Reader ,
'You are important. This is your chance to be heard.....
Please take one minute to answer these questions to help produce a report that is all about your issues, views and concerns.'
