Valley Police Beat: CBP seizes drugs at East Port of Entry
August 21, 2012|By ALEJANDRO DAVILA | Staff Writer

PHOTO COURTESY OF U.S. CUSTOMS AND BORDER PROTECTION

Share on emailShare on printShare on redditMore Sharing Services

CALEXICO — U.S. Customs and Border Protection officers discovered more than a half-million dollars worth of black tar heroin, white heroin, methamphetamine and cocaine hidden in a La Quinta resident’s car Monday at the Calexico East Port of Entry, according to a press release.

Around 3 a.m., a detector dog alerted to a green 2001 Chevy Silverado while a CBP officer was screening vehicles. CBP officers found a dozen wrapped packages of drugs inside a custom-built compartment near the center console during a search.

The drugs weighed a total of 63 pounds with a street value of approximately $783,000.

The driver, a 49-year-old male U.S. citizen, was arrested and turned over to the custody of U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement agents for further investigation.  

The man was later brought to the Imperial County jail to await arraignment and CBP seized both the car and narcotics. 

— Chelcey Adami, cadami@ivpressonline.com



Juvenile stabs teenager

A 17-year-old boy was arrested on suspicion of stabbing a teenage girl, battery and making criminal threats Monday morning near the 600 block of Olive Avenue, an El Centro police commander said. 

The victim came to the station around 7 a.m. and alleged the boy battered her and then assaulted her with a knife, leaving a stab wound to the leg, said Cmdr. Jeff Mason. The girl was transported to El Centro Regional Medical Center, according to the logs.

The incident happened around 3 a.m. at the suspect’s house, said Mason, who added patrol officers saw the suspect around 10:30 a.m. near his house on Olive Avenue and arrested him. Following the investigation, the suspect was taken to juvenile hall.

There were no witnesses and both teenagers gave conflicting information, said Mason. 

“We don’t have a clear picture as to the why part of it,” he said.



Man picks fight at jujitsu academy

A male angered over his ex-girlfriend dating someone else looked for the new boyfriend, a student at a jujitsu academy, to reportedly pick a fight Monday night, according to El Centro police logs. 

The incident took place near the jujitsu academy located in the 600 block of Main Street here, said Mason, who added no crime was committed, “thankfully.”

But the male almost became physical toward the jujitsu student, according to the logs, and several students from the academy stepped out to assist their classmate. 

The jujitsu instructor then challenged the male to fight his student inside the class with gloves, the logs read. 

But the jilted boyfriend declined to go inside and left before police arrived, said Mason, who noted that a jujitsu academy isn’t the best place to start trouble.
