The War on Terror is a Lie
Posted on August 21st, 2012
Shenali Waduge
Fear has been turned into a political weapon that has given Governments the right to usurp people’s freedom on the assurance that the protective measures they adapt are for the security and safety of the people and their country. This was how the Administration of George Bush contrived to militarily invade nations and take over the assets of the nations that they earmarked to target. Years on we need to now realize that we had been fed with nothing but lies for which mainstream media also stands accountable.

Though late we need to know what those lies are in order not to be fooled in the future.

To those that did not know better, the bombing of the World Trade Center on September 9, 2011 was made to look as if it was the first and only terrorist attack on mankind. It took just 9 hours to bomb Afghanistan without any conclusive evidence. The Plans that had been set well before 9/11 to take over nations was given a knee jerk with the 9/11 from which we can but deduce that 9/11 was likely to have been staged. The evidence to prove so is overwhelming further accentuated by the fact that Task Forces had been appointed to feed the media, to create speeches, stories and articles to justify the carpet bombings that would kill thousands in both Iraq and Afghanistan. The mainstream stands guilty of relaying misleading media coverage portraying them in such a way to give a totally different meaning to the ground situation. This occurred and continues to occur in all the countries US/Allies target.

Within hours of 9/11 we suddenly come to hear about – Osama bin Laden and a movement called the Al Qaeda, never heard by any of us before. Never disclosed were the ties that Osama had to the Bush family and the Saudi Royal family. We were told about Osama, his terrorist movement active in 50 countries, his training of Muslim terrorists, sketches of Osama’s hideout in the Tora Bora caves. With all these information at hand we wonder why the US never apprehended him leading us to further wonder whether the Al Qaeda actually exists at all.  The truth is – It is because of “Osama and his Al Qaeda” that the US and Allies have been able to walk over countries and dictate to them.

How did the Al Qaeda spring into being? It was former President Jimmy Carter’s national security advisory and present foreign policy advisor to President Obama who was tasked to create the Afghan Mujahideen in 1979 – this was the base of the Al Qaeda. There is footage of the former national security advisor speaking to the Mujahideen encouraging them and promising US assistance for their liberation. That assistance is said to be USD20billion of US tax payers money that helped train these terrorists against Russia. It is opportune for us to wonder what links the LTTE and other terrorists movements originally had as well.

Far more important than CIA training the Afghan Mujahideen is something that may have escaped our attention. CIA did not enter Afghanistan to back the Mujahideen because Russia invaded Afghanistan. CIA was in Afghanistan before Russia invaded it and provoked the Russians to invade so that US could be projected as the good guy and invade Afghanistan to save it from the Russians. This is the same blueprint that the US used on Iraq. Saddam Hussein was asked to invade Kuwait and thereafter US simply entered the scene as the savior. Russian troops retreated from Afghanistan in 1989 and we know what happened to the Soviet Union shortly afterwards.

It takes no fool to realize that the US is targeting energy-rich regions. All the countries the US and Allies are threatening are oil rich nations. The US Government is run by Think Tanks and Corporate Lobbies. It is the corporate tycoons that tell what US Presidents should do.

Bush’s own cabinet comprised of former US-oil giants. Dick Cheney was the former CEO of Halliburton, Condeleeza Rice was a former board member of Chevron Oil. Bush’s own family has links to the Bin Laden family. His own brother’s company “Harken Energy” was financed by Osama’s brother. Much of the investigation into 9/11 is said to have been hampered by the White House mostly to hide the Saudi connection and what should have been included into public news was listed as classified.

The 1st invasion followed the Draft Defense Planning Guidance signed by Dick Cheney, Paul Wolfowitz, Lewis Libby, Zalmay Khalilzad in 1992 to enable military and diplomatic dominance by US/West.

It was in 1997 that same group formed the Project for the New American Century to militarily and economically control the world.	
There were no Al Qaeda in Iraq but it was invaded. US has built its largest state-of-the-art embassy on 104 acres for 5500 diplomats, staff and families. US and British oil companies hold over 80% of Iraq’s oil reserves. The White House Iraq Group was tasked to create speeches, articles, and feed the media to prepare for the invasion of Iraq. The trump card to be used was WMD and that Saddam was just “six months” away from developing a nuclear weapon. The International Atomic Energy Agency too confirmed this. We know too well how heads of international agencies have at times misused their offices. Congress authorized the invasion and the American people kept trust that its Government would save the Iraqi people and the World from Saddam.

It was Blair who suggested to abandon the UN authorization and to proceed with the invasion. Clare Short, his former secretary for international development told the London Guardian that Bush and Blair had decided to invade Iraq in February 2002. The invasion has caused unnecessary loss of life to millions of Iraq’s and over 5000 US/Allied troops, over 28,000 maimed, thousands of foreign soldiers suffering psychological disorders and millions of refugees none of whom have been resettled, reconstructed, reconciled, reunited with their families or rehabilitated. Juxtapose that with an actual terrorist scenario in Sri Lanka wherein 30 years of terrorism was nullified within 3 years and within that same period rehabilitation, resettlement, reintegration, reconstruction and reconciliation has made Sri Lanka the envy of the world. Yet, no one is pointing fingers at the US/Allies demanding timelines from them. US never intended to upgrade Iraq post-Saddam. A country in chaos serves the US/Allies well and excuses the need for the Allied troops to remain. It is for this reason that we cannot overrule the possibility that the insurgents are being armed by the West and both take turns on attacking the civilians in order for the charade to continue. Iraq has had its national treasures stolen and its history destroyed. No apology can ever make up for this evil. Over a trillion dollars has been spent of tax payers money but only a handful are pocketing the benefits.

It was the Foreign Oil Companies Group among whom was Henry Kissinger (former Secretary of State and present advisor to Unocal Corp) who lobbied the Afghan invasion because Taliban would not axe the oil and gas pipeline contract awarded to Bridas Corp of Argentina in 1996. The US and Allies were eyeing the pipeline along Afghanistan, Pakistan, Turkmenistan and India and military intervention was to enable the US/Allies to install military bases along its route. Thus, 9/11 proved perfect to invade Afghanistan after it was carpet bombed on 7 Oct 2001 and a former Unocal consultant was installed as the new Afghanistan Prime Minister. The Bridas contract was axed and Unocal not surprisingly got the contract.

Iran is threatened over its nuclear weapons because Iran has the 3rd largest oil reserve whilst North Korea which also possesses nuclear weapons is at the bottom of the US military intervention list because it does not have oil. Venezuela was threatened with invasion in 2005 because it too possesses the largest oil reserves in the western hemisphere. US interest in Philippines is because Mindanao has Asia’s richest oil reserves. The common enemy is supposed to be Abu Sayyaf. With Osama now gone the US is demanding Pakistan crackdown on Haqqani.

US military intervention appears to be nothing more than stealing the world’s oil from its natural owners. It is not only the killing of civilians, the use of depleted uranium and other such chemicals are causing immense dangers to civilian life, unborn foetus, soil, water and the entire environment and even contaminating our food.

The modern norm appears to be creating and training “liberation” movements and then sending these “hired” forces into countries and using them as “natives” against governments causing mayhem to countries that are targeted. Libya and Syria are two such examples where the General Assembly is passing Resolutions against Syria when it should first be doing something about “trained foreign terrorists” who are far more dangerous.

Counter-Terrorism has become more of a nuisance than the dangers of Terrorism. Massive funds are allocated on the pretext of “safeguarding” people. 3million illegal immigrants enter the US annually some of these can possibly be terrorists.

Lets face the truth. UNPROVOKED Military intervention of Iraq and Afghanistan had nothing to do with 9/11 and violates UN Charter. The plans were finalized by 3 February 2001.

Is it not strange that even after a decade of targeting these Muslim countries and killing millions why the US/West has yet to be targeted by any of these “terrorists” if they did pull off 9/11! While Americans live in fear thinking their Govt is protecting them, thousands die on a daily basis to keep up the lie while those that created the lie enjoy the profits!

To satisfy the sadistic whims of a few, tax payers are having to fund the war on terror that has plunged the US into debt and has now come to deny US citizens their very freedoms. There are over 15,000 undercover FBI agents who justifies their existence on the ground of “terror alerts” and fake plots. Governments especially the West have mastered the art of using citizens “fear” as a weapon. Boarding a flight means taking off shoes, jackets, belts, being groped and one cannot even take a water bottle not to mention the terrifying looks by security personnel! The West falsely seem to think freedom is all about sex and the city – the argument is that the entire world has been duped by a handful of people making profit from a falsely created Terror situation. The lies need to stop.
