Pilot veers plane off Teterboro runway after brakes fail

SUNDAY, SEPTEMBER 9, 2012	    LAST UPDATED: SUNDAY SEPTEMBER 9, 2012, 8:59 PM
BY  SCOTT FALLON
STAFF WRITER
THE RECORD

A pilot deliberately swerved his small plane off a runway at Teterboro Airport and into nearby grass in order to stop after his brakes failed during an emergency landing Sunday, authorities said.


MITSU YASUKAWA / STAFF PHOTOGRAPHER
Officials stand by after a private plane veered off the runway onto the grass at Teterboro Airport on Sunday.
Neither the pilot nor the co-pilot was injured, said Jackie Yodashkin, a spokeswoman for the Port Authority, which runs the airport. There were no passengers.

The incident happened shortly after the Piaggio P180 Avanti turbo-prop had taken off from Teterboro. The pilot radioed that he was experiencing “technical problems” with the plane and requested permission to land back at Teterboro, Yodashkin said.

When the pilot touched down around 12:20 p.m., he was unable to stop the plane on a 6,000-foot runway and instead veered it off the runway into the grass where it slowed to a stop.

Port Authority officials did not release the name of the pilot, how many years he has been flying or where the plane was bound. Officials said they didn’t know where the plan was headed.

Investigators are “looking to see if it was a hydraulic problem,” Yodashkin said.

The plane was built in 2004 and received an “airworthiness certification” last week, according to a Federal Aviation Administration database.

The plane is owned by Avantair Inc. of Clearwater, Fla., according to the FAA.

Avantair leases planes and offers “fractional ownership” to customers. The Avanti can hold seven passengers and is the world’s fastest turbo-prop plane, rivaling the speed of many small jet planes, according to Avantair’s website. Company executives didn’t return a phone call Sunday seeking comment.

The plane was not damaged. There was no disruption to service as other planes continued to land and take off at the airport Sunday afternoon while Port Authority police responded to the scene.

“We’ll see where the investigation moves forward,” Yodashkin said Sunday afternoon. “Right now we’re deciding where to move the plane. “

Teterboro has long been the focus of concern from residents in its flight path as it has evolved from a small general aviation airstrip into one of the busiest airports in the country.

In 2005, a jet plane with too much weight overran the runway, crashed through the airport’s barrier, ran across Route 46 and slammed into a warehouse during an aborted takeoff. A year after the crash, the Port Authority installed an arrestor bed — a stretch of aerated concrete that acts like flypaper for planes — on the northeast side of the runway. In October 2010, an arrestor bed was credited with stopping and preventing the crash of an out-of-control jet that had landed on the 6,000-foot runway.
