http://www.washingtonpost.com/national/in-mass-injured-veteran-gets-a-small-town-homecoming/2013/05/26/b8f0cf20-c3d7-11e2-914f-a7aba60512a7_story.html

BELLINGHAM, Mass. — He eyes the parade float from the front seat of his minivan. It is larger than he expected and covered with small blue stars set on a field of shimmering white plastic. Mounted on the back is a sign that reads: “WELCOME HOME MSGT JOE DESLAURIERS USAF.”

“You okay to go on the float?” the parade chairman asks. Deslauriers takes a deep breath.

Against the backdrop of Arlington National Cemetary, Rolling Thunder roared across Memorial Bridge in an annual commemoration of those lost and missing in the nation's wars.
“I’m not crazy about it,” he says. “But you do what you gotta do.”

Even before he learned about the float, Deslauriers, who lost both legs and an arm in Afghanistan, was uneasy about serving as the grand marshal of his home town’s Memorial Day parade, which in Bellingham is always held a week early. The holiday, after all, honors dead servicemen. “It is about people who have paid the ultimate sacrifice,” he said, “not people who have paid a half-assed sacrifice.” He hated the idea of being on display atop a float while hundreds of people gawked at him.

Deslauriers, 34, has come to Bellingham with his wife and 17-month-old son from Bethesda, where he’s still receiving medical treatment for his 2011 injuries. After the Memorial Day parade, he is hoping to talk to Boston Marathon bombing survivors about life as a triple amputee. He wants to tell them how hard it is to get used to strangers who fix their eyes on his missing legs or look away in disgust. On his worst days he wants to slap these people.

“One, two, three, push,” says Deslauriers’s father. He and a friend grunt and heave Deslauriers’s wheelchair up a rickety metal ramp and onto the float’s white stage. A beefy man in a black T-shirt pulls out a whirring electric drill and bolts Deslauriers and his wheelchair into place.

“Joe’s all set,” he yells.

Deslauriers stares straight ahead. His wife, Lisa, who is sitting next to him on the float, straightens his tie and tugs at his shirt, which is riding up under his blue Air Force uniform. The sound of bagpipers practicing “Amazing Grace” vibrates through the air. Deslauriers looks down at his prosthetic arm and notices that he is still wearing the rubber, saucer-size disk that he uses for pushing his wheelchair and scooting across the ground. He twists it off and replaces it with a decorative hand that has been specially painted to match his skin tone.

Just before Deslauriers starts to move, the parade chairman stops by one last time to apologize for the float.

“I didn’t want to embarrass you or anything,” he says. “We just wanted to recognize your sacrifice and your Silver Star.”

“I appreciate it, Jimmy,” Deslauriers replies.

Part of the parade

Deslauriers’s father, Joe Sr., marches at the front of the parade on achy knees, sweat seeping through his black fire department dress uniform. In a few days, he will turn 60 and retire, ending his 34-year run with the department.

For as long as Deslauriers can remember, the town’s firetrucks have blown their horns as they pass by the Deslauriers’s family home — just a way of saying hello in a little town.

“Do you think they’ll keep doing it after your dad retires?” Deslauriers’s mother had asked him over breakfast that morning.