http://www.washingtonpost.com/world/national-security/boston-bystander-said-he-acted-instinctively/2013/04/16/a4b38392-a6a2-11e2-8302-3c7e0ea97057_story.html

By David A. Fahrenthold, Published: April 16

BOSTON — Carlos Arredondo ran across Boylston Street, jumped the security fence and landed on a sidewalk smeared in blood. In front of him, two women lay motionless. Another woman walked around in black-powder smoke, looking down at the fallen bodies.

“Oh, my God,” he said she repeated, dazed. “Oh, my God.”

From the archive


A father transformed by anguish
Read David Finkel's 2005 profile of Carlos Arredondo, whose reaction to the death of his son became one of the iconic images of the Iraq war. (AP Photo)
More on this story:
Stories of the victims

Then Arredondo put the camera away. He asked the injured man his name.

“Stay still,” he remembered saying, in accented English. “The ambulance is here.”

In the moments after Monday’s bomb attacks, there were bystanders who defied human instinct — and official orders to evacuate — and ran toward the smoke, instead of away.

There was a Kansas doctor who ran back to help after completing 26.2 miles. A District native who ran down from a post-race party to apply tourniquets. A couple who tried to stop a stranger’s bleeding with a wad of coffee-shop napkins.

And, most astoundingly, there was Arredondo — a man once so broken by grief that his breaking made national news.

First, his son died in Iraq. Then, when Marines came to tell him so, Arredondo set himself on fire inside the Marines’ van. Then, years later, as he was healing, his other son committed suicide.

But Monday — for some reason — when the bombs went off, the broken man came running.

“I did my duty,” Arredondo said the next morning.

In the aftermath of Monday’s explosions, much of the early lifesaving was performed by amateurs: Boston cops, marathon volunteers, plain old bystanders. They tied tourniquets and carried away the injured in wheelchairs or in arms.

On Tuesday, local hospitals said this work — along with the efforts of professional medics on the scene — probably saved lives.

“Tourniquets are a difference-maker. Tourniquets can save a life,” said Joseph Blansfield, a nurse practitioner and program manager at the Boston Medical Center trauma unit, which saw a large influx of patients from the scene. “They proved their value yesterday.”

The man in the wheelchair

Arredondo became the face of this bystander heroism after news photos showed him pushing an injured man down the street in a wheelchair. At the time of the first explosion, he was on the opposite side of Boylston Street, close to the finish line. He had come to support a group of military service members who were marching the race with heavy rucksacks on, as a memorial to fallen soldiers.

One was marching for Alex Arredondo, who was killed in 2004 in Najaf, Iraq. Carlos Arredondo and his wife, Melida, were waiting for that runner. They never saw him.

“That was a bomb,” Arredondo said he thought as soon as it happened. Soon, he arrived at the side of the man without a leg. So did another bystander, who seemed to know what he was doing.

The other bystander asked for tourniquets. Arredondo said he tore pieces off a sweater he had found on the ground.