http://www.nytimes.com/2013/04/26/world/europe/parents-say-boston-bombing-suspects-are-innocent.html

By DAVID M. HERSZENHORN
Published: April 25, 2013

MAKHACHKALA, Russia — The parents of the two brothers accused in the bomb attack that killed three people and wounded more than 260 others near the finish line of the Boston Marathon insisted on Thursday that their sons were innocent and had no connections to radical Islamists.
Multimedia

Officials in the United States have said that Tamerlan, 26, died after being shot during a standoff with the police in Watertown, Mass., and then run over by a vehicle driven by his younger brother as he escaped. The younger of the brothers, Dzhokhar Tsarnaev, 19, was captured and has been charged with using a weapon of mass destruction. He is recovering in a Boston hospital and may face the death penalty if convicted. Officials have also released video showing the brothers near the site of the bombing.

Despite this evidence, and after two days of questioning by Federal Bureau of Investigation agents here, Ms. Tsarnaeva said she could not accept that her sons were guilty.

“No, I don’t — and I won’t,” she said. “Never!”

During an emotional question-and-answer session that lasted nearly an hour, the parents addressed many of the questions that investigators and the American public have been asking in the anxious days after the bombing, declaring that their sons were not religious radicals and were not connected to any militant organizations.

Their answers were a mixture of denials and conspiracy accusations. They seemed exhausted, their grief raw. They expressed concern about Dzhokhar, but did not offer any condolences to the victims in Boston. Ms. Tsarnaeva — who at times sobbed, raised her voice and pounded a table for emphasis — said she was considering giving up her American citizenship.

In one dramatic moment, Ms. Tsarnaeva said the F.B.I. agents who went to the family’s home in Massachusetts to question Tamerlan about his religious views had asked her if she worried that he might commit an act of terrorism.

“Actually they told me, ‘Don’t you think that Tamerlan is being a little bit, you know, like, extreme about religion?’ ” she said. “ ‘Do you think that he would think about organizing some kind of, you know — ’ ”

She broke off and then stumbled over her words. “Probably that was their meaning,” she continued. “Terroristic, terrorism or whatever, aggression.”

“ ‘Do you see any aggression in Tamerlan?’ ” she quoted the agents as saying. “No, I did not.”

She said that in the days after the bombing she saw what she described as video footage on the Internet that showed a man that she said was Tamerlan being put into a police car naked, apparently stripped of his clothes to check for explosives. The next day, she said, she saw gruesome images of his corpse.

“Killed, truly killed,” she said, describing the images. “I wanted to scream, to scream to the whole world: ‘What did you do? What have you done with my son?’ He was alive. Why did they need to kill him? Why not send him to Guantánamo or whatever? Why did they kill him? Why did they have to kill him? They got him alive. He was in their hands.”

The parents said they regretted having lived in the United States but wanted to return soon to see Dzhokhar, though they expressed fears that they would not be allowed to see him until he was in prison.

“Yes, I would prefer not to live in America now. Like, why did I even go there — why?” Ms. Tsarnaeva said, breaking into tears and sobs. “I thought America was going to, like, protect us, our kids. It was going to be safe for any reason. But it happened the opposite. My kids — America took my kids away from me — only America.”

“I don’t know,” she said, regaining her composure. “I am sure that my kids were not involved in anything.”

Mr. Tsarnaev responded sharply to a reporter who asked why Tamerlan had felt that he did not fit in among Americans, once saying he did not have any friends.

“That’s not true,” Mr. Tsarnaev said. “He have a lot of friends, you know. I know these friends, you know.”

Ms. Tsarnaeva jumped in to say that Tamerlan had meant he did not have a best friend. “So it doesn’t mean that he just did not fit in America,” she said.

The parents said the F.B.I. agents who questioned them in the past two days had been most interested in Tamerlan’s six-month visit to Dagestan last year, which they said had been undertaken so that he could obtain a Russian passport.

Although he was born in Russia, Tamerlan had traveled on a passport from Kyrgyzstan, where the family had lived, that was about to expire. They said he needed a Russian passport because he did not have American citizenship.

And while the parents insisted that his visit was focused on trying to get a passport, visiting relatives and helping his father, they confirmed that he worshiped occasionally at a mosque popular among Salafist Muslims. Dagestan has been riven by violence because of a split between Salfists and more tolerant Sufis.

Ms. Tsarnaeva expressed some of her greatest anger when one questioner said Dzhokhar had told officials that the brothers were motivated by an extreme interpretation of Islam. She said Dzhokhar’s lawyers had assured her that he could not yet speak or write.