http://www.nytimes.com/2013/04/20/sports/baseball/mets-and-harvey-beat-nationals-and-strasburg.html?_r=0

By ZACH SCHONBRUN
Published: April 19, 2013

Manager Terry Collins has not tried to shield Matt Harvey from the attention, and Harvey has maintained his stated desire to be the best pitcher in baseball. But to justify that attention, and legitimize that desire, Harvey had to prove something Friday in the first marquee matchup of his young career.

Before the game, Collins continued to heap praise on Harvey, his 24-year-old prodigy, marveling at his poise and confidence, extolling his determination and desire. Collins said he had not heard a young player talk as openly about becoming the best in the game since Barry Bonds.

“All he’s done thus far is backed it up,” Collins said.

Through 13 career starts before Friday, Harvey had a 6-5 record with a 2.21 earned run average, fast becoming one of baseball’s must-see talents.

But he had yet to face someone of Strasburg’s caliber, a next step that Collins said he was eager to watch. Harvey has not been known to shy away from a challenge. He came out firing on Friday.

Harvey (4-0) struck out the Nationals’ first batter, Denard Span, on three pitches and cruised through his first six innings, allowing just two hits. Touching 98 miles per hour on the radar gun, he admitted his emotions were soaring.

“It was really the first big Friday night, I guess you could say,” Harvey said. “It’s something I’ll learn from and tone down a little bit after the first inning.”

Catcher John Buck called a few early curveballs, saying he felt it necessary “to remind him to back down and just trust his stuff.”

“I don’t think he really cares who he faces,” Buck added. “He is who he is, and that’s what makes him so good. He thrives on those situations.”

Strasburg actually got the Nationals’ first hit, a double down the right-field line in the third, but Harvey did not allow another hit until the sixth.

The Mets gave him an early lead, scoring two runs on two hits in the first off Strasburg.

In the sixth, Ike Davis and Lucas Duda hit solo home runs to deep center, effectively ending the night for Strasburg, who left after six innings and five hits. After Duda’s homer, fans at Citi Field chanted, “Harvey’s better.”

“There was definitely some electricity out there,” Duda said. “We were able to get to Strasburg early, gave Harvey some extra confidence. He pitched very well.”

In the seventh, Harvey found some trouble with the bases loaded and nobody out and one run already in. But he struck out Kurt Suzuki, got Roger Bernadina to pop out and induced a groundout by Span, slipping his way out of trouble.

Citi Field erupted into a standing ovation as he left the mound. The crowd remained standing and cheering as the video scoreboard in center field announced that the second suspect in the Boston Marathon bombing had been captured.

“That’s the mark of a true ace right there,” Collins said. “He knew he needed to get out of that inning, and he reached back for a little extra.”

Harvey threw 105 pitches, 68 for strikes, and has now allowed 10 hits in 29 innings. His E.R.A. is 0.93.

Collins said Harvey was “grouchy” before the game, which he took as a positive sign, an indication of Harvey’s focus and intensity. “He was a little bit on edge,” Collins said, adding that Harvey was not afraid to make mistakes and lose. But Collins does not expect either to occur too often.

“I’ll tell you what — there’s going to be a lot of years you’re going to talk about this guy,” Collins said. “He’s going to be really something.”

INSIDE PITCH

Terry Collins said the catching prospect Travis D’Arnaud would not require surgery to repair a fractured bone in his left foot, which could require eight weeks to heal. Collins said d’Arnaud, who sustained the injury on a foul tip during a game Wednesday with Class AAA Las Vegas, was in a walking boot.