http://www.nytimes.com/2013/04/25/world/europe/boston-bombing-stirs-echoes-of-unrest-in-caucasus.html?pagewanted=all

By DAVID M. HERSZENHORN and ANDREW E. KRAMER
Published: April 24, 2013

KIZILYURT, Russia — With an automatic weapon at his side and a black flag behind him, the Islamic rebel explained in a video why he had gone to war with his government. As is often the case in the broiling Muslim insurgency here in the North Caucasus, his complaints were intensely local: a police commander had announced a policy of harassing and threatening family members of suspected militants.

Abu Dujana also apparently caught the attention of Tamerlan Tsarnaev, the older suspect in the Boston Marathon bombing, who had posted the rebel’s videos on his YouTube account. It is still not known if Mr. Tsarnaev, who was killed in a confrontation with the police, met Abu Dujana or other militants during a six-month stay last year in Dagestan, or if he was an admirer from afar.

On Wednesday, Mr. Tsarnaev’s mother, who lives in Makhachkala, Dagestan’s capital, faced a second day of questioning by American investigators trying to determine exactly whom he met and what he did, and perhaps confirm the statement by his younger brother, Dzhokhar, who has been charged in the bombing, that they were not part of any organized terrorist group.

Still, it is clear from interviews with friends and relatives in Dagestan and in the United States that Tamerlan Tsarnaev had firm views about the violent split between moderate Sufi Muslims supported by the Russian government and adherents of Salafism, an orthodox form of Sunni Islam — a tug of war that has driven the religious politics in the North Caucasus for two decades.

Mr. Tsarnaev sided squarely with the Salafist camp, which includes the jihadist rebels for whom violent revenge and score-settling are a way of life developed through years of anti-Russian insurgency. After the breakup of the Soviet Union, many of the Salafists studied at religious universities in the Middle East, forming a cadre of young ideologues who returned with strong objections to the more tolerant forms of worship they found in their homeland.

At his mosque in Cambridge, Mass., Mr. Tsarnaev had shown a preference for a strict Salafist interpretation of Islam, objecting to a sermon that approved the celebration of Thanksgiving and saying that he would not celebrate the birthday of the Prophet Muhammad. While those views seemed out of place in the university town of Cambridge, in the wind-swept villages of Dagestan they are a part of the daily discourse, and of a legacy of violence going back decades.

Over the years, the Dagestan insurgency spawned its own ideological framework, based on Islam. In 1998, several mountain villages in Dagestan, in an area known as the Kadar Zone, rejected Russian law enforcement and courts and practiced Muslim religious law, called Sharia.

They were crushed by the Russian military in 1999, but the movement survived. Insurgents say they are fighting to uphold Islamic law and reject Russian institutions and practices, like women wearing revealing clothes and the sale of alcohol, and also to substitute for corrupt courts.

Bombings and assassinations are common. Alcohol shops are blown up; gunmen shot a schoolteacher who prohibited headscarves in class. A bomb buried in the sand of a beach volleyball court on the Caspian Sea sheared off the leg of a woman who played in a bikini.

Obscure local grievances have also led to some of the most notorious recent terrorist attacks in Russia. In 2010, Doku Umarov, the leader of the Caucasus Emirate, ordered a double suicide bombing in the Moscow subway that killed 39 people in revenge for the deaths, months earlier, of villagers picking wild garlic in a forest.

Here in Kizilyurt, a town about an hour west of Makhachkala, on the road to Grozny, the capital of Chechnya, the imam at the central mosque, Gadzhimurad Gasanov, 37, said that the Salafists practiced a particularly strict form of Islam, rejecting anyone who did not share their views.

“From the very first day, they bring blood,” Mr. Gasanov said in an interview in his office. “They consider us the infidels, and they say if you shed blood of an infidel it is not a sin.” He added: “These people are fanatics. These people are dangerous.”

Russian authorities considered Abu Dujana among the most dangerous. He took over as leader of the Kizilyurt cell last July, when the previous leader was killed. And he displayed the qualities of charisma — along with ruthlessness and a dark, macabre sense of humor — admired in guerrilla leaders in the North Caucasus.

He rose to prominence after appearing in a mocking YouTube video holding bags of rubles that he said he had extracted from the police as protection money, setting the stage for an exchange of insults, attacks and killings that followed.

But after being nicknamed by supporters as a Robin Hood-style rebel, Abu Dujana felt compelled to issue a second, angry video, when the authorities encouraged the formation of a pro-government militia calling itself the Robin Hood band, and working in the same town.

The pro-government Robin Hood band appeared to consist of policemen who sought extrajudicial punishment for rebels by harassing, and threatening to kill, their family members, local leaders said. In his retort, Abu Dujana said rebels might also target wives and children of the police.

The authorities closed this chapter in December when they killed Abu Dujana. But the fight between Sufis and Salafists and between rebels and the Russian authorities continues. On Tuesday, officials said they had killed two militant suspects in the village of Sogratl, 55 miles south of Makhachkala.

Magomedrasul Saaduyev, the imam of the government-supported Grand Mosque in Makhachkala, said that residents had, sadly, grown accustomed to violence.

“Unfortunately, it’s a norm,” Mr. Saaduyev said in an interview. “When we hear an explosion, we get used to it, like a thunderstorm.”