http://articles.chicagotribune.com/2013-04-18/news/ct-talk-huppke-boston-conspiracy-theories-20130418_1_conspiracy-theories-boston-marathon-fringe

April 18, 2013|By Rex W. Huppke

Whatever deranged thinking led to the bombing of the Boston Marathon and shook a nation of largely good-hearted people was followed, within hours, by the germlike spread of conspiracy theories.

There was a time this wouldn't have mattered. A time when the dalliances of addled brains were kept in dog-eared notebooks or muttered by the local kook from atop a bar stool, with no one paying him any mind.



But now the crooked thoughts of the paranoid and self-obsessed blare from the megaphones of social media. And we find that madness has an echo. We're subjected to the tragic act itself, and then to the unhinged choir of conspiracy mongers whose siren song takes an awful situation and makes it worse.

On Monday, the day of the attack, the first question Massachusetts Gov. Deval Patrick received at a news conference was: "Was this another false flag staged attack to take our civil liberties?"

A "false flag" attack is a popular conspiracy theorist term implying that the marathon bombing was the work of the U.S. government. The governor responded with a terse, "No." He should've said, "No, you idiot," but I give him credit for restraint.

In less than a day, slickly produced YouTube videos claimed the government was behind the attacks and — perhaps most bizarrely — justified that claim in part by citing an edited clip from an episode of the popular Fox cartoon series "Family Guy."

Such thinking confounds most rational people. But with the continuous demand for news about a tragedy like this, nonsense rushes in to fill the void, conspiracy theories proliferate online and some end up being taken seriously. (For more on this, ask President Barack Obama, who, according to a Pew Research Center poll, 17 percent of registered voters still think is a Muslim.)

"I don't think there's any question whatsoever that we see more and more conspiracy theories invading mainstream American political life," said Mark Potok of the Southern Poverty Law Center, which monitors hate groups across the country. "What we've seen in the last few years is really quite mind-boggling. It's not merely that some nutty people on the fringe of the fringe believe very far-out things that have no basis in reality. It's that these beliefs make their way right into the political mainstream and into the heart of our political system."

Consider a United Nations plan called Agenda 21, which President George H.W. Bush and leaders from 177 other countries signed in 1992. Potok said it's a plan for sustainable development, a nonbinding agreement with no legal force.

But a few years ago, Potok said, the John Birch Society began claiming that Agenda 21 was a global plot to strip Americans of their property rights. This thinking seeped into fringe elements of the tea party movement and then managed to leap into the Republican National Committee's 2012 platform, which read: "We strongly reject the U.N. Agenda 21 as erosive of American sovereignty."

"This doesn't have even a toehold in reality," Potok said. "Yet it's being adopted by one of the two main parties in this country."

There is no way to effectively mute conspiratorial voices, especially not now when they screech like feral cats from our Twitter feeds and Web searches. Not when your well-meaning aunt forwards you a zany blog post she believes because it "looks legit."


Potok says we must speak truth to madness.

"I think it's important to call the liars out," he said.

I think we also need to recognize these conspiracy theories for what they are — reverberations. Mild aftershocks of craziness when compared with the initial act of destruction. Echoes.

And louder than echoes are the positive voices that rise from a tragedy. The extent of the marathon explosions was barely understood when tweets began flying out from Bostonians offering homes to displaced runners, directions to donate blood, wireless Internet signals to help people communicate. Expressions of prayer and solidarity ate up bandwidth and filled the airwaves.

And a quote from Mr. Rogers made the rounds via Facebook and email. It read: "When I was a boy and I would see scary things in the news, my mother would say to me, 'Look for the helpers. You will always find people who are helping.'"

We live in a world of distrust and paranoia, a world where the playing field of broadcasting has been leveled, allowing the craziest among us to speak without fear or filter. Their ideas can be corrosive, sometimes hurtful, even scary.

But their ideas are only echoes.

We should listen for the voices of people helping. Let those be the ones that resonate, let those be the ones that linger, and let the repellent sounds of lunatics swiftly fade away.