http://articles.chicagotribune.com/2013-04-17/news/chi-indiana-woman-injured-in-boston-marathon-bombing-20130417_1_marathon-blasts-finish-line-bomb-blast

April 17, 2013|Staff report

Beth Roche had just watched her daughter cross the finish line of the Boston Marathon Monday when she suddenly found herself on the ground, her ears ringing from a bomb blast.

"There was glass all over the place and the noise was so loud," Roche, of Highland, Ind., said in an interview with Katie Couric. "And then I looked down and my leg was open and my bones were sticking out of my leg. I was hurting."



A police officer rushed up and kept telling her, "It's OK, it's OK," she said.

Then Roche saw a friend of her daughter. "She was hopping. . . She had blood coming out of her leg and I was so sad," she said, struggling to speak between gasps. "And then I didn't know where my kids were, I didn't know where my husband was, I didn't know where my daughter was. She just finished, she just finished. I was upset, I was upset."

"Just blood and glass everywhere," she said. "I kept thinking of my daughter and my husband. Where are they?"

Down the road, her daughter Rebecca Roche feared the worst when she heard the blast and saw where the smoke was coming from.

"I looked over my shoulder from just beyond the finish line, I saw that the smoke was coming from a storefront where I knew my parents were standing, my friends and family were all right there," she told Couric.

Rebecca Roche said she found her father and friends and learned that her mother had been taken to Tufts, where Beth Roche underwent extensive surgery on her leg.

The blast killed three people, including an 8-year-old boy, and injured 167 people. Hospital officials said they recovered BBs, carpet tacks and other pieces of metal that apparently were used as shrapnel in the bombs. Many of the injured suffered severe trauma to their legs.

Beth Roche told Couric a plate was placed in her leg and rods were inserted above and below the knee. "My leg is pretty bad. When I was looking down and seeing these bones, it was surreal. Does that really belong to me?"

But that wasn't the worst thing, she said.

"You know what was sad?," she said, interrupting a question from Couric. "What was sad is that her moment, her dream was ruined by these people," she said, referring to her daughter at her side. "It makes no sense. She worked so long to make this dream come true and it was taken away from her."