http://articles.chicagotribune.com/2013-07-10/news/sns-rt-usa-explosionsboston-pix-20130704_1_lingzi-lu-boston-marathon-tamerlan-tsarnaev

July 10, 2013|Reuters
By Scott Malone

BOSTON, July 10 (Reuters) - Accused Boston Marathon bomber
Dzhokhar Tsarnaev is due in court on Wednesday to face charges
in the worst mass-casualty attack on U.S. soil since Sept. 11,
2001, a crime that could bring the death penalty.



The 19-year-old ethnic Chechen was charged late last month
with killing three people by setting off homemade
pressure-cooker bombs, assembled by him and his older brother,
in a crowd of thousands of race spectators on April 15, and
later shooting dead a university police officer.

That shooting, and a later gun battle with police in the
suburb of Watertown, Massachusetts, led to the death of
26-year-old Tamerlan Tsarnaev, and a day-long lockdown of most
of the Boston area as police searched for Dzhokhar, who was
found, badly wounded, hiding in a boat in a backyard.

The marathon attack injured about 264 people, with many
losing legs.

The biggest challenge for Tsarnaev's attorney, public
defender Miriam Conrad, will be sparing him the death penalty,
one observer said.

"I suspect that Miriam will start tomorrow by trying to
change his image and make him look like the normal, average,
clean-cut young kid," said Walter Prince, a former federal
prosecutor in Boston who is now a partner with the law firm
Prince Lobel. He is not involved in the case.

BRIEF APPEARANCE

Tsarnaev's appearance at U.S. District Court in Boston - the
same building where mobster James "Whitey" Bulger is currently
on trial - will likely be brief, with Conrad perhaps entering a
not guilty plea on his behalf, Prince said.

Conrad did not respond to a request for comment.

According to court papers, Tsarnaev scrawled a note on an
inside wall and beams of the boat in which he hid.

"The U.S. Government is killing our innocent civilians," the
note read, according to court papers. "We Muslims are one body,
you hurt one you hurt us all."

"Now I don't like killing innocent people it is forbidden in
Islam but due to said it is allowed," he wrote,
according to court papers. "Stop killing our innocent people and
we will stop."

Tsarnaev was badly wounded during the gun battle and arrest.
After initially being confined at a city hospital, he was moved
to a prison west of Boston. Prosecutors have declined to comment
on his current condition or if he is still being held at the
Fort Devens, Massachusetts, facility.

The Tsarnaev brothers' ethnic homeland of Chechnya, a mainly
Muslim area that saw centuries of war and repression, no longer
threatens to secede from Russia. But it has become a breeding
ground for a form of militant Islam whose adherents have spread
violence to other parts of Russia.

Three people died in the April 15 bombing - 29-year-old
restaurant manager Krystle Campbell, 23-year-old graduate
student Lingzi Lu and 8-year-old Martin Richard.

Three days later the Tsarnaevs shot dead Massachusetts
Institute of Technology police officer Sean Collier, according
to the indictment.