http://articles.chicagotribune.com/2013-05-14/news/sns-rt-britain-bostoncameronl6n0dv3dh-20130514_1_pm-cameron-boston-marathon-boston-victims

May 14, 2013|Reuters

By Andrew Osborn

BOSTON, May 14 (Reuters) - British Prime Minister David
Cameron paid tribute to the victims of the Boston marathon
bombing on Tuesday in a visit to the site of the attack, saying
Britain stood shoulder to shoulder with the United States
against terrorism.



On the second day of a three-day trip to the United States,
Cameron visited the memorials to the victims at Copley Square, 
accompanied by Massachusetts Governor Deval Patrick.

Three people were killed and more than 260 injured in the
April 15 bombings.

Cameron made a special trip to Boston after meeting
President Barack Obama in the White House on Monday to discuss
the Syrian conflict and next month's G8 summit in Northern
Ireland.

"Everyone in the UK stands with your great city and your
great people," Cameron told reporters in the square.

It was crucial to challenge the "narrative of violent
extremism," he added, which meant "standing for the values that
we believe in" such as freedom, democracy and diversity.

"We know how important it is to stand up and say the
terrorists will not win," the prime minister added. "We will
never give in to terrorists."

Ethnic Chechen brothers Tamerlan Tsarnaev, who died in a
shoot-out with police, and Dzhokhar Tsarnaev were suspected of
setting off bombs at the marathon's finish line. Dzhokhar
Tsarnaev is in a prison west of Boston, charged with crimes that
could carry the death penalty if he is convicted.

Cameron also met members of Boston's emergency services to
hear how they coped with the bombing.

The London marathon took place six days after the attack and
began with a 30-second silence for the victims. Many of the
London runners wore black ribbons in memory of the dead.

"I'm here to tell Bostonians that Londoners, like all
Britons, stand shoulder to shoulder with them," Cameron told the
London Evening Standard newspaper separately.

"For those who seek to try and disrupt our way of life, our
message is clear: be it Boston or London, we will be strong."

After meeting Cameron on Monday, Obama thanked the London
marathon runners for dedicating the race to the Boston victims.

On Monday, Cameron became the first British serving prime
minister to visit the FBI operations center in Washington, from
where the hunt for the Boston bombers was conducted.

Cameron, who was accompanied by the new chief of Britain's
MI5 security service, has said he wants to see whether Britain
can learn from Boston's experience.

Cameron also visited the Massachusetts Institute of
Technology on Tuesday, where he dropped into a robotics
laboratory to hear about how such technology is being used for
medical purposes.