http://articles.chicagotribune.com/2013-05-20/news/ct-tl-libertyville-boston-5k-run-20130523_1_boston-marathon-chicago-runners-bike-ride

May 20, 2013|By Danielle Gensburg

"Gloria Steinem once said, 'Self-esteem isn't everything; it's just that there's nothing without it,'" said Jothy Rosenberg, who lives near Boston and was diagnosed with bone cancer at 16 and had to have his right leg amputated.

Three years later, doctors told Rosenberg the cancer had spread to his lung. After removing about 40 percent of his lungs, doctors informed him he had a small chance of survival.



More than 38 years have gone by and Rosenberg learned to ski, competed 17 times in the Alcatraz Sharkfest Swim in San Francisco Bay, participated in a bike ride from Boston to New York on behalf of AIDS and a bike ride across Massachusetts to Cape Cod eight times, received a doctorate from Duke University, contributed to cancer research, wrote four books, founded eight high-tech startups and is the host of a reality TV series called "Who Says I Can't."

Rosenberg also started the Who Says I Can't Foundation, which is dedicated to helping people with disabilities restore their self-esteem and find and succeed at an activity they love through educational initiatives and sport enablers, according to the organization's website.

Who Says I Can't will receive 100 percent of donations collected at this year's Run for Boston 5K, a race organized by the members of the Chicago Running Bloggers community and Muddy Monk trail runners.

Muddy Monk provides race events and parties for runners of varying capabilities. The Chicago Running Bloggers is an online forum for runners to blog about their accomplishments, adventures and life outside of running, according to a news release.

Katie Adams, a member of Chicago Running Bloggers since 2009 and the race's director, posted on the online forum after the terrorist attack in Boston asking other runners to take action.

"Across the country, I've seen runners come together," she said. "To show that we are a community … we all kind of went to each other on that day. As runners, we felt a very strong connection and that we needed to do something."

Adams emailed back and forth with spokeswoman Kelly Janowski and CEO and founder of Muddy Monk Art Boulet to put the event together and acquire a permit. The total cost for the event is about $7,000, Adams said.

The Run for Boston 5K will be from 9 a.m. to noon June 15 at Independence Grove in Libertyville. Awards will go to the best runners, and participants can enjoy a post-race party featuring food, adult beverages and activities and giveaways from race sponsors.

Individuals can register to be a part of the race virtually for $26.20 — they donate instead of run — or participate in the actual run for $30. Both registrations include a T-shirt and water bottle.

"We also have an option where people can donate directly to the charity we have partnered with," Janowski said.

Janowski said Rosenberg's goal in founding Who Says I Can't was to help those affected by the Boston Marathon bombings find something they're passionate about again.


Boulet, who has personal ties to Boston through family, said 120 individuals had signed up to participate in the race and about 30 or 40 for the virtual. He said he hopes the race will raise $25,000 to $30,000.

"I think the biggest reason that this race is going to be important is because having this race two months after the fact reminds people not only of this tragic event but it's also when the amputees are going to be coming to grips with a lot of the things that have happened," Boulet said. "We want to let them know there is hope, it's going to get better, this is something we're doing to do to help you recover and help you thrive."