http://online.wsj.com/article/SB10001424127887323528404578453622310826846.html?KEYWORDS=boston+bombing

April 29, 2013, 10:44 p.m. ET
By TAMARA AUDI
A defense attorney known nationally for representing defendants in high-profile cases is now turning her attention to her newest client, Dzhokhar Tsarnaev, a suspect in the Boston bombing.

On Monday, U.S. District Court Magistrate Judge Marianne Bowler approved the appointment of Judy Clarke to represent Mr. Tsarnaev, saying her "qualifications demonstrate she is 'learned in the law' of capital cases."

Ms. Clarke has had a string of well-known clients in cases where the death penalty was in play. She has represented Jared Loughner, who killed six people and wounded 13 in Tucson, Ariz.; "Unabomber" Theodore Kaczynski; and Susan Smith, whom a jury convicted of killing her two children in a case that drew headlines in the 1990s.
 
Among the rescue efforts for the more than 260 victims of the Boston Marathon bombings are crowdfunding sites that are raising funds to pay the bills that are already piling up. MarketWatch's Jim Jelter reports. (Photo: Getty Images)

Federal prosecutors have charged Mr. Tsarnaev, 19 years old, with use of a weapon of mass destruction—which could result in the death penalty.

The Boston bombings killed three people and injured 264.

Ms. Clarke's talent, her opponents and admirers say, is winning her clients' trust and finding ways to help them avoid the death penalty.

The former public defender, based in San Diego, is able to build relationships with difficult clients—some diagnosed with mental illness—"by being 100% dedicated to their cause," said Laurie Levenson, a professor at Loyola Law School in Los Angeles and a former assistant U.S. attorney. "I can't imagine anyone better working on such a case," she said, referring to the Boston case.

Ms. Clarke, who rarely speaks to the media during cases, didn't respond to a phone call seeking comment.

She is also known for an ability to block out the noise of high-profile cases and make life-or-death decisions for her clients under intense pressure, those who know her said. She has "a cast-iron stomach," said Frank Ragen, a criminal-defense attorney in San Diego who has known Ms. Clarke for decades.

Mr. Kaczynski eventually plead guilty to multiple charges related to making bombs, and was sentenced to four consecutive life sentences. Ms. Smith is serving a life sentence.

Mr. Loughner is serving seven life terms after pleading guilty to the Tucson shootings in a plea deal that allowed him to escape possible execution if he had been convicted at trial.

Ms. Clarke fought fiercely—but ultimately unsuccessfully—to prevent the government from forcibly administering powerful antipsychotic drugs to Mr. Loughner. Such treatments could have made him competent to stand trial.

Even as angry victims gathered in court during Mr. Loughner's case, she treated him with kindness, at times putting a hand on his back or shoulder, apparently trying to soothe him.