http://online.wsj.com/article/SB10001424127887324582004578459301391485038.html?KEYWORDS=boston+bombing

May 2, 2013, 7:50 p.m. ET

CAMBRIDGE, Mass.—With shared roots in Central Asia, two Kazakh students new to Massachusetts hit it off with Dzhokhar Tsarnaev, whose family had come to the Boston area a decade earlier.

The Kazakhs also gave Mr. Tsarnaev something his struggling family couldn't: a taste of affluence, including access to a luxury car. The three 19-year-olds enjoyed meals, late nights hanging out and a trip to Times Square together.

Now all three are in U.S. jails—Mr. Tsarnaev for allegedly using a weapon of mass destruction in the April 15 Boston Marathon bombing and the Kazakhs because of their alleged attempts to help their friend when he was named as a potential terrorist. None has entered a plea.

Kazakhstan's foreign ministry said Thursday it was cooperating with the U.S. probe and offering consular help to the two suspects, Dias Kadyrbayev and Azamat Tazhayakov. Lawyers for the two said they were cooperating with authorities, and Mr. Kadyrbayev's lawyer said his client didn't know the backpack he allegedly discarded contained evidence linked to the bombing.

Mr. Tsarnaev was captured April 19 after a firefight with police that killed his older brother and fellow accused bomber, Tamerlan Tsarnaev.

The body of Tamerlan Tsarnaev was picked up around 5:30 Thursday from the Massachusetts Office of the Chief Medical Examiner, according to a spokesman for the state's Executive Office of Public Safety. The body was taken away by a funeral service retained by the family. The spokesman said the name of the funeral service and other details weren't public, because funeral arrangements are private.

After the capture, federal officials questioned Mr. Kadyrbayev and Mr. Tazhayakov, and subsequently began trying to deport them, saying they had violated their student visas—an allegation their lawyers contest.

Linda Cristello, a Boston immigration lawyer representing the two Kazakhs in the separate deportation proceedings, said their friendship with Mr. Tsarnaev isn't surprising because "foreign students stick together." The University of Massachusetts Dartmouth, which all three attended, has just a few Russian-speaking students from the former Soviet Union.

Mr. Tsarnaev's ability to speak Russian would have allowed him to be something of a "native guide for Kazakhs far from home," said Brian Glyn Williams, a professor of Islamic history at the university who once advised Mr. Tsarnaev on a paper he was writing on Chechnya.

Mr. Kadyrbayev was struggling in school. According to Ms. Cristello, he stopped going to classes last fall after his grades fell, and he wanted to return home. "He was finished with school," she said.Mr. Tazhayakov is currently enrolled but has been suspended pending the outcome of the case against him, the university said.

Like his two college friends, Mr. Tsarnaev also spent time living in Central Asia. He grew up partly in the former Soviet republic of Kyrgyzstan, which borders Kazakhstan where both Mr. Tazhayakov and Mr. Kadyrbayev come from.

Kazakhstan is a former Soviet republic in Central Asia that has witnessed economic growth in the past decade largely thanks to oil. Mr. Tazhayakov hails from Atyrau, an oil-industry hub in the west of Kazakhstan. He attended the elite Miras International School in Almaty from 2007 to 2011, when he graduated, a representative of the school said. Miras, which teaches students in English, Russian and Kazakh, costs about $21,500 a year for the final years of high school. In 2011, the gross national income per capita of Kazakhstan—a country of some 16.6 million—was $11,250, according to the World Bank.His father, Amir Ismagulov, is the chairman of the board of directors at an industrial company and a local politician, according to Kazakh media reports.

Mr. Kadyrbayev was one of the few people to write on Mr. Tsarnaev's profile on Russian social-networking site Vkontakte. He posted a photo showing the two in what appeared to be a dorm kitchen with their arms around one another. On the table in front of the two young men in the photo was a chicken dinner, ranch dressing and a jug of orange juice.

"Everyone who knows my son knows he never fought with anyone," Mr. Ismagulov said in an interview aired on Russian television. "He was never associated with any radicals."

Mr. Kadyrbayev is from Almaty, Kazakhstan's main city. In a TV interview last week, Mr. Kadyrbayev's father said the "Terrorista #1" license plate that appeared on his son's black BMW was a joke gift from Spanish friends. "It's a joke that has dramatically turned on them," he said.

Mr. Tsarnaev's own car was a messy Honda Civic, but occasionally he would borrow a black BMW driven by the Kazakhs, said Ahmad Nassri, 20, who played indoor soccer with Mr. Tsarnaev every Monday in New Bedford. "One time I called him rich when he showed up in a BMW, and he was like, 'No dude, this is my friends' car,' " he said.

U.S. authorities also charged another friend of Mr. Tsarnaev, 19-year-old Robel Phillipos, with allegedly lying to investigators. Mr. Phillipos, a U.S. citizen, went to high school with Mr. Tsarnaev and also attended UMass Dartmouth, former classmates said.

Mr. Phillipos's lawyer declined to comment beyond saying his client hasn't been accused of any offense related to the bombing.

If convicted, Mr. Phillipos faces up to eight years, compared with a maximum of five years for the two Kazakhs, because of a federal law increasing the penalties for those convicted of lying about a terrorism investigation.

Mr. Phillipos's family hailed from Ethiopia, said Juliette Terry, 20, a former classmate of both men. Ms. Terry said she didn't believe Mr. Phillipos would knowingly cover up anything related to the bombings. If he gave differing accounts to investigators, as prosecutors alleged, it may have been because it's "overwhelming and traumatizing to be questioned like that," she said.

Outside a midrise apartment building in Cambridge, Mass., where Mr. Phillipos lives with his mother, neighbor Ron Tecle, 17, described Mr. Phillipos as a good student who rarely went to parties and "just wanted to be successful." Mr. Phillipos served on a council of youth leaders organized by Cambridge to give advice to the city.

"Maybe he was just scared," Mr. Tecle said.