http://online.wsj.com/article/SB10001424127887324743704578447212196070792.html?KEYWORDS=boston+bombing

April 26, 2013, 7:04 p.m. ET

By EVAN PEREZ And PERVAIZ SHALLWANI CONNECT
A Federal Bureau of Investigation analysis of the bombs used in the Boston Marathon attacks has concluded that makers of the devices had some knowledge beyond the step-by-step recipes already described by the surviving suspect in the attack.

Dzhokhar Tsarnaev has told interrogators that he and his brother used bomb-making instructions found in Inspire, an online al Qaeda magazine, according to federal officials. His brother, Tamerlan Tsarnaev, the other accused bomber, was killed during a gunfight with police in Watertown, Mass.

More

Suspects' Mother Was Placed on Watch List
The FBI's bomb experts analyzed remnants of both bombs that exploded on April 15 near the marathon's finish line, as well as additional explosive devices that authorities said were recovered after the encounter with the suspects early on April 19.

Their early conclusion is that the bomb makers likely had additional training or expertise, in part because they deviated from two recipes in Inspire, according to a report prepared by the Terrorist Explosive Device Analytical Center and law-enforcement officials briefed on the investigation.

The analysis also determined that the explosives used were "consistent with commercial fireworks," said the report, which was reviewed by The Wall Street Journal. Officials cautioned that the analysis was preliminary.

Federal agents are still investigating whether Tamerlan's wife, Katherine Russell, and several associates of the brothers, provided unwitting assistance or knowingly assisted in any part of the alleged plot, officials briefed on the probe said. At least part of the investigation of Ms. Russell and other associates focuses on whether evidence related to the bombing investigation has been tampered with or destroyed, the officials said.

The officials cautioned that the probes are still in early stages and no allegation of wrongdoing has been made against the fewer than 10 people investigators are still looking at. Investigators are still seeking an interview with Ms. Russell.

Ms. Russell's attorney didn't respond to a request for comment on Friday. A lawyer for Ms. Russell has previously said she is "doing everything she can to assist with the investigation."

Authorities have recovered remnants of three bombs made from pressure cookers. The suspects are accused of using two at the race and throwing the third at police in the firefight. During that face-off—which authorities said ended with Dzhokhar fleeing on foot after running over his brother in a stolen vehicle—the suspects also allegedly threw improvised pipe bombs at police.

With explosive material placed in pressure cookers and nails and other small parts added to make them more lethal, the devices tracked the Inspire recipe. But their triggers were different, the FBI report said.

The Inspire instructions suggest wires from a car alarm or similar device be used to make triggers. The Boston bombers used hobby fuses and a radio controller for a toy car to detonate the pressure-cooker bombs, the report said.

Still to be determined is where the suspects, whose father is of ethnic Chechen origin, may have received any additional expertise—whether from other people or additional Internet sources. U.S. authorities have been looking closely at a six-month trip in 2012 by Tamerlan Tsarnaev to visit family in Russia's Dagestan, which borders Chechnya.

On Friday, Dzhokhar Tsarnaev was moved from a Boston hospital, where he had been since his capture, to a federal prison medical center at Fort Devens, Mass. He is being treated for multiple wounds.

The FBI analysis found that the pipe bombs thrown at police appeared to follow a recipe published by the al Qaeda magazine.

Authorities recovered Christmas-tree lights in one of the suspects' rooms, prompting investigators to see whether part of the initiator for the pipe bombs was light-bulb filaments, the FBI report said. Such filaments are recommended in one Inspire recipe.