http://online.wsj.com/article/SB10001424127887324766604578457300711642048.html?KEYWORDS=boston+bombing

Updated May 1, 2013, 7:42 p.m. ET
By MARK MAREMONT CONNECT
Federal charges against three friends of the surviving Boston bombing suspect give further credence to earlier reports that the alleged bombers may have used explosives extracted from easily available consumer fireworks in their deadly devices.

Photographs accompanying the criminal complaints against the three young men showed cut-up pieces of fireworks and portions of colorful fireworks packages, allegedly found inside the discarded backpack of bomb suspect Dzhokhar Tsarnaev. The fireworks had names such as Megabanger Color Pearl Flowers and Big Snow.

"When you see the colorful labeling, those are typically consumer fireworks," said Julie Heckman, executive director of the American Pyrotechnics Association, an industry trade group. "What we don't know is if there were other materials involved" in constructing the bombs, she added, such as black powder or other explosives also easily obtained from many gun stores or sporting-goods stores.

Ms. Heckman said the fireworks industry is "very, very concerned about this report, and the possible use of consumer fireworks in such a destructive manner." She said the industry would "certainly look at all sorts of options to prevent this type of incident happening."

Massachusetts bans all fireworks sales, but the items are easily available in neighboring New Hampshire. Tamerlan Tsarnaev, Dzhokhar's now-deceased older brother and alleged fellow bomber, bought two, 24-shell "Lock and Load" mortar kits from a Phantom Fireworks outlet in Seabrook, N.H., in February, company officials have said.

William Weimer, a vice president at Phantom Fireworks, said none of the three products pictured in the latest criminal complaints came from his company's outlets, so it is likely the alleged bombers also purchased pyrotechnic devices from rivals' retail stores.

He said the Federal Bureau of Investigation has asked his firm for the chemical composition of the fireworks it sold to the elder Mr. Tsarnaev, which the company has provided.

John Conkling, a chemist with decades of experience in fireworks, said the photograph included with the latest criminal complaints "clearly showed they were taking apart consumer fireworks," probably to get to the explosive material inside. He said the photograph appeared to show cut-open tubes taken from one of the fireworks.

A firework device such as the Megabanger, he said, is restricted by law to no more than 200 grams of explosive material, likely only one-fourth of it black powder suitable for use in an explosive device. The rest is likely to be less-explosive powder intended to produce color effects.

Asked if it was conceivable that consumer fireworks were used in the Boston bombings, Mr. Conkling said the twin explosions "seem to have been very powerful for consumer fireworks, unless there was a lot of material in there." He said it's possible the bombers used powder extracted from the fireworks for pipe bombs or other devices not used in the main terror event.