http://douthat.blogs.nytimes.com/2013/04/16/the-surprising-dearth-of-terrorists/

April 16, 2013, 4:28 pm

As my (similarly-titled) post from last night suggests, I agree with a lot of what Bruce Schneier wrote for the Atlantic yesterday on the lightning-strike rarity of domestic terror attacks, the futility of much of our security theater, and the necessity of not being terrorized by the Boston Marathon terror. I think this paragraph, though, deserves to be unpacked a little more:

Remember after 9/11 when people predicted we’d see these sorts of attacks every few months? That never happened, and it wasn’t because the TSA confiscated knives and snow globes at airports. Give the FBI credit for rolling up terrorist networks and interdicting terrorist funding, but we also exaggerated the threat. We get our ideas about how easy it is to blow things up from television and the movies. It turns out that terrorism is much harder than most people think. It’s hard to find willing terrorists, it’s hard to put a plot together, it’s hard to get materials, and it’s hard to execute a workable plan.
This seems right but incomplete. Incomplete because (as Schneier would no doubt acknowledge) it isn’t always that hard to find willing terrorists, as the evidence from the Holy Land, Iraq, Afghanistan, Sri Lanka and many other places suggests. (In the right context, it’s actually remarkable how many people are willing to be recruited into near-certain death.) And incomplete because while it’s clearly difficult to put a major, World Trade Center-level plot together, one need only look at the non-ideological massacres in places like Aurora and Newtown, or the possibly-ideological depredations of the Beltway sniper, to see how easily terror can be sown in places that aren’t hardened against an attack. It would be difficult, no doubt, for even a highly effective terrorist organization to pull off atrocities like yesterday’s bombing — carried out against a high profile target in a major city, with cops and security cameras all around — on a consistent basis without getting rolled up fairly quickly. But I agree with James Joyner and Megan McArdle: In a country as vast as the U.S.A., where Israeli-style security measures would be unmanageable and unimaginable, a highly effective terror campaign (as opposed to the lone-wolf one-offs we’ve experienced) wouldn’t require genius planning, massive amounts of capital, or highly sophisticated material; it would just require guns, crude bombs and (crucially) manpower.

I don’t want to elaborate scenarios, but you can just go back into the Atlantic’s archives and read Richard Clarke’s 2005 piece imagining what a post-9/11 second wave of attacks might look like. Since that wave didn’t actually materialize, the article feels exploitative and fearmongering, but all of the vulnerabilities Clarke describes are real, and to exploit them would mostly just require a little bit of organizational muscle, a non-moronic plan, and a few dozen people motivated enough to die.

But that kind of manpower for terror simply hasn’t materialized in the United States since nineteen men chose suicide as a means to mass murder twelve years ago. Such people presumably exist, and without the post-9/11 disruption of Al Qaeda and its affiliates maybe a terrorist organization would have been able to find them, import them, or both. And obviously we’ve been lucky in the gross stupidity of the people who have entertained terror campaigns. But of all the factors that have kept America relatively safe these last ten years, the lack of real domestic radicals (Islamist, far-right or far-left, whatever) looms very, very large. Madmen and lost souls and lone wolves — those we have in abundance. But not people willing and able to cooperate in a murderous cause.

There have been many such in human history; there are many in the world today. But there are fewer than one might expect in this divided, feuding, polarized republic of 300 million souls. And whatever America’s problems, we should take comfort in that grace.