http://slapshot.blogs.nytimes.com/2013/04/16/rangers-with-boston-connections-have-heavy-hearts/

By JEFF Z. KLEIN
April 16, 2013, 4:10 pm

PHILADELPHIA — Rangers Coach John Tortorella did not want to talk about it. That is not an unusual stance for Tortorella, who has a chilly relationship with the news media, but this time he was referring to the bombings at the Boston Marathon on Monday.

“Don’t ask,” said Tortorella, who is from Concord, Mass.

He repeated the phrase three times in answer to the question, and confined the rest of his brief comments to Tuesday night’s game against the Flyers.

Brian Boyle, a forward from Hingham, Mass., about 16 miles south of Boston, thought of his parents, his 11 siblings, and extended family and friends who might have been affected by the blasts.

“Thank God they’re all safe,” Boyle said. “But we wake up with a heavy heart, I’m sure, for all the victims.”

Boyle said he arrived in Philadelphia with the rest of the Rangers on Monday afternoon and took a nap for a couple of hours.

“I woke up and there was a lot of buzzing on my phone,” he said. “So before I could even process it all I heard the news that everyone was O.K. So I didn’t have to sit and worry.”

Boyle, who played for Boston College for four years, said a close friend housed 40 to 50 runners overnight at his Back Bay home after authorities locked down hotels in the area.

He called marathon day as the “best day every year” in Boston.

“I went to school on Comm Ave. four years, I was there and I’ve seen it all,” he said, referring to Commonwealth Avenue a major part of the marathon route. “Even before I went to school, I saw what a wonderful day it is, what a cool event for the city of Boston. It’s a shame. It’s hard to put into words what transpired there, like a bad dream. Like a nightmare.”

Defenseman Matt Gilroy, who grew up in Manhasset, N.Y., and went to college in Boston, also remembered how much Patriots Day meant to him.

“It’s such a celebration for Boston,” Gilroy said. “You look forward every year — hockey season’s over and it’s Marathon Monday right after. I can’t explain to you how much people look forward to it. And then you think about all the people who train to run it.

“Something like that is terrible. You’ve got to think about the people that lost someone, people that were just down there and had their legs blown off. I know you never expect that. It’s scary what people are capable of.”

He said he had friends from his Boston University days who were manning tents along the marathon route to assist runners, but who wound up helping the injured in the aftermath of the bombings.

Gilroy, 28, spoke at length about his memories from the attacks of Sept. 11, 2001.

“It brings you back, being from New York, to 9/11, the people I knew who lost people there,” he said to a small group of reporters. “Devastating. Especially all the firemen. I just knew so many people from being there, as you probably did. It really hits home when stuff like that happens.

“When I think of bombs, I think of 9/11. I remember trying to get in touch with my dad in high school. He was right there. He used to work in Jersey City. We had Nextel and it never worked, and it worked that day. ‘Where are you? Where are you?’ The second plane had just hit, and he just ran.

“Speechless, just like that day. I remember going to school in Manhasset, you could see the smoke forever. There was one hill where you saw the smoke from 9/11 – it hit your stomach every day. You guys being from New York, you know. That was just horrible, horrible. Funeral after funeral. You’d go by a church, and every day, a funeral.”

Gilroy has lost family members, including a younger brother who died at 8.

“Thoughts and prayers are really with those families for sure – I said prayers last night right away,” Gilroy said. “I know how special life is. That feeling of loss, it stays with you forever. But that innocent people went out like that, there’s no words.”