http://www.theguardian.com/world/2013/jul/10/boston-marathon-explosions-dzhokhar-tsarnaev

Wednesday 10 July 2013
The suspect accused of the Boston Marathon bombing pleaded not guilty to 30 counts on Wednesday, including use of a weapon of mass destruction to kill, a charge that could result in the death penalty.

Dzhokhar Tsarnaev, 19, repeatedly told a packed federal court in Boston he was "not guilty" of all counts on which he is charged.

It was his first public appearance since he was found hiding in boat in a Boston suburb, following a confrontation with police that resulted in the death of his brother and alleged co-conspirator Tamerlan.

Three people were killed and more than 260 injured when improvised bombs made from pressure-cookers were detonated in the final stretch of the marathon race on April 15.

Federal prosecutors allege that the brothers, originally from Chechnya but living in the US, constructed, planted and detonated the two bombs and later shot dead a police officer.

Prosecutors are considering whether Dzhokhar Tsarnaev should face the death penalty if found guilty.

He appeared in court dressed in an orange prison jumpsuit, with unruly hair and his left arm in a cast. When each of the 30 charges was read out, he leaned into the microphone and said "not guilty" in a Russian accent.

During proceedings, the 19-year-old reportedly looked nonchalant, even bored. He glanced around the courtroom, occasionally looking back at survivors of the attack and victims' families in the gallery. His two sisters were also in court. As he was led out of the courtroom, Tsarnaev blew a kiss to them.

?Tsarnaev was arrested on 19 April, found holed up inside the boat, with serious injuries resulting from a gunfight with police.

The grand jury indictment, which lists the charges against the teenager, alleges that as he lay bleeding in the boat he wrote on the walls: "The US government is killing our innocent civilians. I can't stand to see such evil go unpunished".

The charge sheet alleges that the brothers concealed the improvised explosive devices inside black backpacks, before planting them in the crowd of marathon spectators, in an attack that was orchestrated to kill and maim civilians.

The bombs were detonated in quick succession, 550ft apart, at 2.49pm. The first, said to have been placed by Tamerlan Tsarnaev, killed Krystle Campbell, 29.

Dzhokhar Tsarnaev, a naturalised US citizen, is accused of setting off the second device, killing Lingzi Lu, 23, and Martin Richard, eight.

The pair are alleged to have spent months preparing for the attack on the 117th Boston Marathon, taking part in target practice at a firing range and purchasing 48 mortars containing 8lb of low-grade explosive powder from a fireworks store in New Hampshire.

They are also accused of downloading extremist literature from the internet, including the first volume of Al-Qaida's magazine, Inspire, which contained instructions on how to build a pressure-cooker bomb.

After the FBI released CCTV images of the brothers, identifying them as suspects, the pair are alleged to have armed themselves with weapons and driven to Massachusetts Institute of Technology university campus, where the shot and killed a campus police officer, Sean Collier.

The indictment states they then hijacked a Mercedes and drove it to Watertown, where a gunfight with police ensued.

In the fracas, Dzhokhar Tsarnaev is said to have run over by his older brother, causing serious injuries that contributed to his death.

It later emerged that the Tamerlan Tsarnaev spent six months in Russia last year, visiting a region known for militant Islamic activity. The FBI reportedly investigated Tamerlan Tsarnaev after a request from Russian officials, but did not pursue charges.

A previous court appearance took place at a hospital, where Tsarnaev was recovering from injuries suffered in the shootout with police.

On Wednesday, Tsarnaev arrived at the courthouse in a secure motorcade, four hours before the hearing. There was a heavy security presence at court building.

?Earlier in Washington, the head of the Boston police department said the marathon bombing had highlighted the need for the FBI to share more intelligence about terror suspects. ?

Commissioner Edward Davis told a US Senate hearing that he believed the FBI should in the future be mandated to inform police departments when it has information "that poses a threat to our cities".

Complaining about a "gap" in intelligence sharing at the highest level, he told the US Senate committee on homeland security and governmental affairs that his officers were not made aware Tamerlan Tsarnaev's trip to Russia.

"If there is information about a terrorist threat to the city, the local officials should have that information. There should be a mandate somewhere, that the federal authorities have to share that, so we can properly defend our community."

He added: "I am not saying anything was done wrong here. I am not saying we would have done anything differently if we had the information the FBI had prior to this. What I am saying is there should be a full, equal partnership, where everyone is sharing."