http://www.theguardian.com/world/2013/apr/23/boston-marathon-injured-toll-rise

Tuesday 23 April 2013 15.32 EDT

The number of people injured in the Boston bombings has risen to 264, the Boston Public Health Commission said on Tuesday.

In the days following the explosions the estimated number admitted to hospital had been set at around 180. That figure has risen in recent days as people who suffered minor injuries sought care.

A spokeswoman for the Boston Public Health Commission, Katinka Podmaniczky, said 264 people had been treated in area hospitals "with injuries related to the bombings".

She said the figure had been rising slowly in recent days. "We've seen it go up incrementally as people who may have been injured, but not seriously, decided that they did need some care. One of the examples would be hearing loss – ringing in the ears that people thought might go away and didn't immediately, so they needed treatment."

Podmaniczky said 51 patients were still in Boston area hospitals on Tuesday morning.

The Boston Public Health Commission said it had opened a new drop-in center to provide free counselling to anyone affected by the attack.

"While the physical injuries and destruction that resulted from the bombings might be the most visible signs of trauma, many people experience serious emotional distress based on what they saw, heard and felt during and after the attack," the commission said in a statement.

"Sometimes these symptoms do not surface immediately. For many people, a newly traumatic event can also trigger emotions and feelings associated with previous traumatic events, making recovery that much more challenging."

The surviving suspect in the bombings, 19-year-old Dzhokhar Tsarnaev, was charged at his hospital bed on Monday with using and conspiring to use a weapon of mass destruction, a count that carries a possible death penalty. Tsarnaev was found hiding in a boat in Watertown, Massachusetts on Friday, the day after his brother Tamerlan Tsarnaev was killed in a shootout with police.

Tsarnaev's condition has improved. He is now described being in a "fair" condition at Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center, the US attorney's office in Boston said on Tuesday.

A memorial service for one of the three people killed in the bombings, 23-year-old Boston University graduate student Lu Lingzi from Shenyang, China, was held at the school on Monday evening. It was attended by hundreds of people, including the Massachusetts governor, Deval Patrick.

"She's gone but our memories of her are very much alive," said her father, Lu Jun, who spoke in his native tongue and was followed by an English interpreter. "An ancient Chinese saying says every child is actually a little Buddha that helps their parents mature and grow up."

A funeral was held earlier at St Joseph Church for another victim, Krystle Campbell, a 29-year-old restaurant manager who had gone to watch a friend finish the race. Services have not been announced for the third bombing victim, eight-year-old Martin Richard, of Boston.