http://www.theguardian.com/world/2013/jul/10/boston-marathon-dzhokhar-tsarnaev-court

Wednesday 10 July 2013 09.54 EDT

Survivors of the Boston Marathon bombing will look on as the young man who could face the death penalty appears in court for the first time since he was found bleeding and hiding in a boat days after the attack on 15 April.

Dzhokhar Tsarnaev's arraignment was scheduled for Wednesday afternoon in federal court in Boston. He has been charged with using a weapon of mass destruction in the bombings that killed three people and wounded more than 260.

The courthouse is expected to be packed for the 19-year-old Tsarnaev's appearance. A spokeswoman for the US attorney's office said space was being reserved in the main courtroom for victims' families, but she did not indicate how many planned to attend.

Court officials have set aside an overflow courtroom to broadcast the hearing for the media.

Tsarnaev has yet to appear publicly since his arrest on 19 April. His initial court appearance took place in hospital where he was recovering from injuries suffered in a shootout with police the day before in the Boston suburb of Watertown.

He had escaped in a hijacked car after running over his brother and alleged co-conspirator, Tamerlan Tsarnaev, who died following a shootout with police. But he was found the next day after a lockdown in Watertown was lifted and a local homeowner noticed blood on the dry-docked boat.

Tsarnaev's arrest stunned people who knew him as a likeable high school athlete in Cambridge, where he lived with his older brother after his parents left for Russia.

But prosecutors say Tsarnaev, a Muslim, wrote about his motivations for the bombing on the inside walls and beams of the boat where he was hiding.

He wrote that the US government was "killing our innocent civilians".

"I don't like killing innocent people," he said, but added: "I can't stand to see such evil go unpunished … We Muslims are one body, you hurt one you hurt us all."

The indictment also said that some time before the bombings Tsarnaev downloaded internet material from Islamic extremists that advocated violence against perceived enemies of Islam.

Martin Richard, aged eight; Krystle Marie Campbell, 29, and Lingzi Lu, 23, a Boston University graduate student from China, were killed by the bombs, which were improvised from pressure cookers.

Authorities also say the Tsarnaevs killed Massachusetts Institute of Technology officer Sean Collier days later while they were on the run.

Many of the victims had limbs amputated after the two explosions, which detonated along the final stretch of the race a couple of hours after the elite runners had finished.