The First Photos Of The Boston Bombing Suspects&#39; Shootout With Police       	 	  Deadspin  	    C Foodspin  C The Stacks  C Screengrabber  C Regressing 	 Kinja  Deadspin  Gawker  Gizmodo  io9  Jalopnik  Jezebel  Kotaku  Lifehacker   P O  S 	 	 S  Advanced  Include Unpublished  Include Replies  Include only posts that have...  Images  Video  Marked as Spam    4 1  E  j  i  G  e Edit 	 B Promote    	 	  	 	 Sports news without access, favor, or discretion. Got gossip? Email our tips line or an individual writer .  	 Why Your Team Sucks 2013 	·	 NFL 	 Media Meltdowns 	·	 ESPN 	·	 MLB  	  Deadspin  Top stories 	  The Great American Menu: Foods Of The States, Ranked And Mapped  Jackasses Topple 200-Million-Year-Old Rock Formation  Why Injured Athletes Like Gronk Aren&#39;t Allowed To Be Cautious  What&#39;s Behind The Grambling Football Team&#39;s Protest  This Is The Best Fake Law Firm Name We&#39;ve Ever Seen  Can You Identify The Baseball Stadium From The Minimalist Poster?  Arian Foster&#39;s Personal Stock Offering Sounds Like Bullshit  No Punter Left Behind: How One Guru Made The Art Of Kicking A Science  Moron: Adrian Peterson&#39;s Sex Life Is As Offensive As Redskins&#39; Name  Holy Crap, José Iglesias  Teamwork!  Here&#39;s What All The NFL Logos Would Look Like If They Were Fat  &quot;Redskins&quot;: A Native&#39;s Guide To Debating An Inglorious Word  Michigan Gets Maced And Kicked In The Balls: 125 FBS Teams, Ranked  Richie Incognito Was Pretty Much The Raddest Kid In Englewood, N.J.  Braves Fans Threaten Team Boycott Over GLAAD Spirit Day Facebook Post  In 1908, The Chicago Cubs&#39; Mascot Was A Terrifying Squirrelbeast  The Fun-Hating Spurs Threw Just One Alley-Oop Last Season  What  Today In Unfortunate Ad Placement   	 	 	   		  Click here to continue reading... 	  	 X Please update your browser for a better experience on Deadspin.  X Your Kinja blog will upgrade to our latest design on October 18 at 6AM EDT.  	 	 			   		 Barry Petchesky 	 boston bombing 		 	 dzhokhar tsarnaev 	 tamerlan tsarnaev 	 shootout photos 	 boston marathon bombing  	 	 4/23/13 9:31am 	4/23/13 9:31am   	 Edit 180,988 g  4 1  148 L E  Share to Kinja  j Facebook  i Twitter  k Tumblr  	 The First Photos Of The Boston Bombing Suspects&#39; Shootout With Police    Andrew Kitzenberg lives on Laurel Street, in Watertown, Mass. On Friday morning, just before 1 a.m., he heard a series of pops from outside his window. The Boston Marathon bombing suspects, Tamarlan and Dzhokhar Tsarnaev, were engaging in a wild shootout with police. Kitzenberg's Twitter account was essential reading that confusing night, and he's now published a series of photos taken from his window.  Kitzenberg's pictures, shared on his website OnHand , are dark and blurry. They're also terrifying and illuminating, and answer a number of questions.  This photo, and the one above, show the Tsarnaevs huddling behind the front of the SUV that they had hijacked earlier in the night. The car at the left also belonged to the suspects—they had arrived on Laurel Street separately, something first revealed on Saturday.   S    The shooters were also driving the green sedan on the left. They had the back passenger door open and were going back into the car where they had additional supplies (assumingly, more ammunition and explosives). They also had backpacks at their feet where they also had additional supplies.   The brothers were not facing a phalanx of cops. If it seemed weird that a 19-year-old could escape from a shootout and a massive manhunt, take a look at Kitzenberg's photo of what the Tsarnaevs were up against:    That looks like just two vehicles. And sure enough, on Sunday Watertown's police chief confirmed that police had surprised the suspects before having time to set up a cordon. &quot;Quickly we had six Watertown police officers and two bad guys in a gunfight,&quot; he said.  In the photo below, Kitzenberg has circled a pressure cooker bomb that the suspects threw at police moments after the picture was taken.    Kitzenberg writes:   The use of this explosive created an enormous cloud of smoke that covered the entire street. While the street was still cloudy with smoke one of the brothers started running down the street towards the officers, while still engaging them in gunshots. As he got closer to the officers, within 10 -15 yards of them he was taken down. From my vantage point I did not see whether he was tackled to the ground or brought down by gunshots.   As Tamerlan Tsarnaev ran toward police, Dzhokhar got back in the SUV and drove directly at them. In this photo, Tamerlan is circled, lying in the street. The SUV accelerates toward him.    Kitzenberg does not confirm reports that Dzhokhar ran over his brother while escaping. He writes,   The SUV side swiped both cars taking out doors and windows and ultimately broke through the vehicle barricade and continued driving west on Laurel St.   Kitzenberg has plenty more photos of the incident and the aftermath at his site , including the aftermath of the IED explosion, and a bullet hole through his wall and desk chair.  [ OnHand ]   	 L Discuss   	  	  K    Show all discussions      additional replies submitted and awaiting review Submitted discussions can be approved by the author or users followed by this blog.   	  	  About Help Terms of Use Privacy Advertising Permissions Content Guidelines RSS Jobs