Boston bombing suspects had planned 4 July attack - Livemint              		  				 	 	 	 	 			 			 				 				 				 		   		  				 				 				 				 				 				 				 				 				 				 								 			  			       			  			  			  										 				  				 				 				 		  	  		 	 	 		 		 		 	 			   	 			   	 			   	 			   	 		 						 		 		 		 		 			 				 			 		 		 			 			 	 	 		 follow livemint on 	 		 		 			 LiveMint | 			 Hindustan Times | 			 LiveHindustan 		 	 	   	 		 		 					 	 		 			 	 		 	  	 		 	  		 				 				 			      		 	 	    		 		 			 		 	 	 				 			    		 	    	 		 Sections 	 	 								 Politics 	 		 			 				 							 Home 						 					 							 Companies 						 					 							 Industry 						 					 							 Policy 						 					 							 Consumer 						 					 							 Money 						 					 							 Opinion 						 					 							 Lounge 						 					 							 Multimedia 						 					 							 Specials 						 					 		   		 			 				 					 						 								 Home 							 														 								 Companies 							 														 								 Industry 							 														 								 Policy 							 														 								 Consumer 							 														 								 Money 							 														 								 Opinion 							 														 								 Lounge 							 														 								 Multimedia 							 														 								 Specials 							 														 				 			 		 		 		 					 						 														 		  Fri, Oct 18 2013. 08 19 AM IST 	 Google’s third quarter results beat estimates as ad volume grows  The market reaction put Google’s stock within striking distance of $1,000   QUICK LINKS: 		 			 People 							 | Results 							 | Management 							  	 	 	 		 			 				 	 Lenovo signs non-disclosure deal to look at BlackBerry: report   	 IRB fails to begin toll collection despite police protection   	 Indian companies most transparent among BRICS: corruption watchdog   		 	    QUICK LINKS: 		 			 People 							 | Results 							 | Management 							  	  	  	 						 					 				 			 					 						 														 		  Thu, Oct 17 2013. 11 52 PM IST 	 Mygola.com raises $1.5 million, eyes expansion  This marks the second round of fundraising for the start-up, which plans to use the funds to expand its presence in the US    QUICK LINKS: 		 			 Financial Services 							 | Manufacturing 							 | Retail 							 | Telecom 							 | Infotech 							  	 	 	 		 			 				 	 HSBC to shut retail brokerage, depository business in India   	 Essar Energy blames Kenya for Mombasa refinery paralysis   	 Govt plans to build centre of excellence with ICANN   		 	    QUICK LINKS: 		 			 Financial Services 							 | Manufacturing 							 | Retail 							 | Telecom 							 | Infotech 							  	  	  	 						 					 				 			 					 						 														 		  Fri, Oct 18 2013. 08 04 AM IST 	 China economy grew 7.8% in third quarter, matching estimates  In the first nine months of the year, China’s GDP grew 7.7% from a year earlier, says National Bureau of Statistics   QUICK LINKS: 		 			 Policy 							 | Infrastructure 							 | Education 							 | International 							 | Reports 							  	 	 	 		 			 				 	 I don’t want to compromise on due diligence process: Veerappa Moily   	 Entitlements to be Congress’s political plank   	 Entry taxes may be subsumed under GST   		 	    QUICK LINKS: 		 			 Policy 							 | Infrastructure 							 | Education 							 | International 							 | Reports 							  	  	  	 						 					 				 			 					 						 														 		  Fri, Oct 18 2013. 01 07 AM IST 	 Kings XI Punjab, title sponsor may resolve dispute in a week  NVD Solar says it is confident an amicable solution can be found through talks with Kings XI Punjab in a week   QUICK LINKS: 		 			 Marketing 							 | Research 							 | Personal Tech 							 | Media 							 | Advertising 							  	 	 	 		 			 				 	 SC questions curbs on news broadcast on private FM radio   	 Sachin’s last Test: Wankhede braces for ticket rush   	 India questions US dominance over critical Internet resources   		 	    QUICK LINKS: 		 			 Marketing 							 | Research 							 | Personal Tech 							 | Media 							 | Advertising 							  	  	  	 						 					 				 			 					 						 														 		  Fri, Oct 18 2013. 08 44 AM IST 	 Asian shares hit five-month high on US relief, China data  China Q3 growth quickens to 7.8% in the third quarter; euro hovers near eight-month high   QUICK LINKS: 		 			 Marketinfo 					  | Did You Know 							 | Mint 50 							 | Mint Money Columns 							 | Mark to Market 							  	 	 	 		 			 				 	 Opening Bell 18 October | Global market rally fizzles; eye on L&T   	 NSEL’s former CEO Anjani Sinha arrested as more details emerge   	 Indian economy: Beyond the numbers   		 	    QUICK LINKS: 		 			 Marketinfo 					  | Did You Know 							 | Mint 50 							 | Mint Money Columns 							 | Mark to Market 							  	  	  	 						 					 				 			 					 						 														 		  Fri, Oct 18 2013. 12 05 AM IST 	 Stagecraft versus dress code  Durga Puja festivities in Singapore replicate antiquated versions in India diluting signs of another country and acquired habits   QUICK LINKS: 		 			 Views 							 | Online Views 							 | Columns 							 | Quick Edit 							 | Blogs 							  	 	 	 		 			 				 	 A rate hike after 14 years shows the ugly side of India’s port regulation   	 Class vs aspiration: The subtext of India’s new political fault line   	 The Kumar Mangalam Birla story   		 	    QUICK LINKS: 		 			 Views 							 | Online Views 							 | Columns 							 | Quick Edit 							 | Blogs 							  	  	  	 						 					 				 			 					 						 														 		  Thu, Oct 17 2013. 09 26 PM IST 	 Kobo takes on Amazon’s Kindle  The e-book reader is out now, but how does it measure up to Amazon’s better known offering?   QUICK LINKS: 		 			 Lounge 							 | Business of Life 							 | Indulge 							  	 	 	 		 			 				 	 The TimeOut Mint Planner, 18 October 2013   	 Music, films, food and more   	 A new dance vocabulary   		 	    QUICK LINKS: 		 			 Lounge 							 | Business of Life 							 | Indulge 							  	  	  	 						 					 				 			 					 						 														 		 			 			 			 Slideshows 			 Take a look at Mint Slideshows for the best pictorial guides to events and happenings from around the world. 			 		 		 		 			 				 			 			 				 Videos 			 			 Quick takes on news stories and developments with expert views from our editors and field reporters. 			 		 		 	    						 					 				 			 					 						 														 	 			 				 			 			 			 Manthan Awards 						 			 Profiling individuals and organizations responsible for digital innovations aimed at promoting the larger good 			 		 		  			 				 			 			 			 Claim Check 						 			 In the run-up to the state and general elections, Mint verifies the accuracy of claims made by political parties  			 		 		     						 					 				 			   	      			 Tweet 						   						 			 			 			 0 			 		   		   		   		 							 Boston bombing 							 Boston Marathon 							 Tamerlan Tsarnaev 							 Dzhokhar Tsarnaev 			 	 2255 	 Boston bombing suspects had planned 4 July attack 	 The date of the attack was advanced because the suspects completed building bombs more quickly than originally anticipated 	 	 Ross Kerber 			 | Jim Finkle 			 | Mark Hosenball 			 	 	 		 		 		 		 	 Share 			 			 Tweet 						 	 	 		 First Published: Fri, May 03 2013. 04 03 PM IST 	  			 			 			People pause at the memorial site in Copley Square for the deadly attacks on the Boston Marathon on Boylston Street in Boston, Massachusetts. Photo: Darren McCollester/Getty Images/AFP 	 		 			 Also Read 			 				 					 									 Three men charged with undermining Boston bombing probe 								 							 									 Olympics bomb lawyer chosen to defend Boston bombing suspect 								 							 									 FBI takes DNA samples of Boston suspect’s widow 								 							 									 How the Web radicalizes and liberates Muslims 								 							 									 Older Boston bombing suspect spoke of ‘jihad’ with mother: report 								 							 			 			 						 			  Boston/Washington : The two brothers suspected of carrying out the deadly attacks on the Boston Marathon had originally planned to set off their bombs on 4 July, a law enforcement official said.  The official said the suspects, Tamerlan and Dzhokhar Tsarnaev , advanced the date of their attack because they completed building bombs more quickly than they originally anticipated. The official declined to be identified and did not offer more details.  Police say the brothers detonated two bombs made with pressure-cookers in the 15 April attack on the Boston Marathon that killed three people and wounded 264.  An attack on Boston&rsquo;s packed 4 July celebrations would have carried the extra symbolism of disrupting the city&rsquo;s widely followed Independence Day celebrations.  Citing unnamed officials, The Boston Globe reported on its website that Dzhokhar Tsarnaev, the younger brother who was captured by police four days after the bombing, told investigators the pair discussed detonating their explosives at the city&rsquo;s famed celebration on its Charles River Esplanade.  News of the alleged 4 July attack plan and other details supplied by Tsarnaev to investigators was earlier reported by The New York Times and other media outlets.  NBC News, also citing unnamed officials, reported Tsarnaev told investigators the bombs were made in the home of his brother Tamerlan, who was killed in a shootout with police early on 19 April.  The Times reported the ethnic Chechen brothers also considered suicide attacks and that they had viewed online sermons by Anwar al-Awlaki, a radical US-born cleric who was killed by an American drone strike in Yemen in 2011. There is no indication the brothers communicated with Awlaki, however, the newspaper reported on its website.  What, if any, ties the two suspects had with foreign militants is a key question for investigators trying to determine how the pair became radicalized. How they selected their target would also shed light on their mindset.  Mitch Silber, executive managing director at K2 Intelligence and former head of intelligence analysis at the New York City Police Department, said a 4 July attack in Boston might have been more deadly given the fact that greater numbers of people gather for the city&rsquo;s annual celebration.  Former federal prosecutor Mark Rasch said a 4 July attack would have sent a stronger message.  &ldquo;The essence of terrorism is all about symbolism,&rdquo; Rasch said. &ldquo;The Boston Marathon just does not have as much of a symbolic feeling as the Fourth of July to the United States.&rdquo;  Tamerlan Tsarnaev was 26 when he was killed in the shootout with police in Watertown, Massachusetts. Dzhokhar Tsarnaev, 19, was wounded in the shootout and captured later that day.  Both are also suspected of killing a university police officer. Another officer was badly wounded in the Watertown confrontation.  Dzhokhar Tsarnaev has been charged with crimes in connection with the bombing that could carry the death penalty if he is convicted, and is being held at a prison medical facility in Devens, Massachusetts.  Suspect&rsquo;s body claimed  Tamerlan Tsarnaev&rsquo;s remains were claimed on behalf of his family on Thursday. His body had been kept at a Boston facility for more than a week.  Terrel Harris, a spokesman for the Office of the Chief Medical Examiner of Massachusetts, said a funeral services company retained by the family had claimed the body. Harris declined to provide details including the cause of death or where the body had been taken.  On Tuesday, Tsarnaev&rsquo;s widow, Katherine Russell, said through an attorney that she wished his remains to be released to the Tsarnaev family.  Russell&rsquo;s attorney could not immediately be reached on Thursday.  Investigators have questioned Russell as they seek clues about how the suspects allegedly built the two bombs used in the attack and whether they had help.  The Tsarnaevs&rsquo; parents previously lived in Cambridge, Massachusetts, but have since returned to Russia. Other relatives remain in the US, including an uncle, Ruslan Tsarni of Montgomery Village, Maryland.  Officials said on Thursday that three men who had been charged with interfering with the investigation of the bombing were in custody at a jail in Middleton, Massachusetts, a small town about 20 miles (30km) north of Boston.  The three 19-year-olds&mdash;Azamat Tazhayakov, Dias Kadyrbayev and Robel Phillipos&mdash;had been transported to the Essex County Correctional Facility in Middleton on Wednesday after they were charged in Boston. Authorities have described them as college friends of Dzhokhar Tsarnaev. REUTERS   Svea Herbst-Bayliss contributed to this story.   	 	 		 		 		 		 	 Share 			 			 Tweet 						 	 	 		 First Published: Fri, May 03 2013. 04 03 PM IST 	  		 More Topics: 			 Boston bombing | 			 Boston Marathon | 			 Tamerlan Tsarnaev | 			 Dzhokhar Tsarnaev | 			 	 	 Also Read 		 					 						 							 						 						 						 							 Three men charged with undermining Boston bombing probe 						 						 					 				 				 				 					 						 							 						 						 						 							 Olympics bomb lawyer chosen to defend Boston bombing suspect 						 						 					 				 				 				 					 						 							 						 						 						 							 FBI takes DNA samples of Boston suspect’s widow 						 						 					 				 				 				 					 						 							 						 						 						 							 How the Web radicalizes and liberates Muslims 						 						 					 				 				 				 		 		 Also Read 			 				 					 									 Three men charged with undermining Boston bombing probe 								 							 									 Olympics bomb lawyer chosen to defend Boston bombing suspect 								 							 									 FBI takes DNA samples of Boston suspect’s widow 								 							 									 How the Web radicalizes and liberates Muslims 								 							 									 Older Boston bombing suspect spoke of ‘jihad’ with mother: report 								 							 			 		  	 Most Read 	 		 			  8312 			 			  The Kumar Mangalam Birla story 			  			  8395 			 			  HCL Tech sees infra driving future growth, profit trumps estimates 			  			  7507 			 			  India has highest number of modern-day slaves: report 			  			  5944 			 			  NSEL’s former CEO Anjani Sinha arrested as more details emerge 			  			  6246 			 			  NSEL buyers may have been fronts to siphon off money: FMC 			  			 	  			 				 More from International 			 			 				 					  47 			 			  China economy grew 7.8% in third quarter, matching estimates 			  			 	 Obama blasts opponents as government re-opens   	 US jobless claims fall less than expected   	 UK to allow Chinese companies to invest in nuclear plants   	 British lawmakers attack govt ‘timidity’ over Sri Lanka   				 					 More &raquo; 				 			 		  				     Editors Picks 	 	 		 &#9664; 	 	 		 			 	 	 Why HCL Tech, TCS shares fell  	 	 Dodgy economic growth forecasts  	 	 Sachin’s last Test: Wankhede braces for ticket rush  	 	 Claim Check: Rahul Gandhi on UPA’s road building record  	 	 Radia tapes: SC tells CBI to probe 14 issues  	 	 NSEL’s former CEO Anjani Sinha arrested as more details emerge  	 	 Kobo takes on Amazon’s Kindle  	 	 India’s average connection speeds remain slowest in Asia-Pacific region: report  		 	 	 		 &#9654; 	 	   		 	 		  Please enable JavaScript to view the comments powered by Disqus.  blog comments powered by Disqus      	 			   	 			    	 Most Read 	 	 			  8312 			 			  The Kumar Mangalam Birla story 			  			 	 HCL Tech sees infra driving future growth, profit trumps estimates   	 India has highest number of modern-day slaves: report   	 NSEL’s former CEO Anjani Sinha arrested as more details emerge   	 NSEL buyers may have been fronts to siphon off money: FMC   	   	 			  			 				 More from International 			 			 				 					  47 			 			  China economy grew 7.8% in third quarter, matching estimates 			  			 	 Obama blasts opponents as government re-opens   	 US jobless claims fall less than expected   	 UK to allow Chinese companies to invest in nuclear plants   	 British lawmakers attack govt ‘timidity’ over Sri Lanka   				 					 More &raquo; 				 			 		  	 Drawbridge 	 		 		 	 	 Wed, Oct 16 2013. 05 52 PM IST 	  	 	 Wed, Oct 09 2013. 03 44 PM IST 	  	 	 	 		 More from this section   	 Slideshow 	 		 			 		 		 Thu, Oct 17 2013. 05 57 PM IST 	 The aftermath of Cyclone Phailin 	  		 		 Tue, Oct 15 2013. 11 51 AM IST 	 Tragedy in Datia: stampede near temple kills 115 	  		 		 Sat, Oct 12 2013. 11 40 AM IST 	 Wills Lifestyle India Fashion Week | Spring Summer 2014 	  		 		 Fri, Oct 11 2013. 06 21 PM IST 	 Photo Essay | Divinity and demons 	  	 	 	 		 More from this section   	 			   	 			    ALSO READ    close     Three men charged with undermining Boston bombing probe     	 			  	 				 					 Companies 					 			 			 				 : 			 			 				 					 						 										 People 											 								 										 | Results 											 								 										 | Management 											 								 				 			 			 			 				 					 Opinion 					 			 			 				 : 			 			 				 					 						 										 Views 											 								 										 | Online Views 											 								 										 | Columns 											 								 										 | Quick Edit 											 								 										 | Blogs 											 								 										 | Small Picture 											 								 										 | Drawbridge 											 								 				 			 			 			 				 					 Industry 					 			 			 				 : 			 			 				 					 						 										 Financial Services 											 								 										 | Manufacturing 											 								 										 | Retail 											 								 										 | Telecom 											 								 										 | Infotech 											 								 										 | HR 											 								 										 | Energy 											 								 				 			 			 			 				 					 Policy 					 			 			 				 : 			 			 				 					 						 										 Policy 											 								 										 | Infrastructure 											 								 										 | Education 											 								 										 | International 											 								 										 | Reports 											 								 										 | Agriculture 											 								 										 | Human Development 											 								 				 			 			 			 				 					 Consumer 					 			 			 				 : 			 			 				 					 						 										 Marketing 											 								 										 | Research 											 								 										 | Personal Tech 											 								 										 | Media 											 								 										 | Advertising 											 								 				 			 			 			 				 					 Lounge 					 			 			 				 : 			 			 				 					 						 										 Lounge 											 								 										 | Business of Life 											 								 										 | Indulge 											 								 				 			 			 			 					 Multimedia 				 			 			 				 : 			 			 				 					 						 							 Slideshows 						 							 | Videos 						 					 				 			 			 			 				 					 Money 					 			 			 				 : 			 			 				 					 						 										 Personal Finance 											 								 										 | Did You Know 											 								 										 | Mint 50 											 								 										 | Mint Money Columns 											 								 										 | Mark to Market 											 								 										 | Markets 											 								 										 | Ask Mint Money 											 								 				 			 			 			  	 Subscribe | 	 Contact Us | 	 mint Code | 	 Privacy policy | 	 Terms of Use | 	 Advertising | 	 Mint Apps | 	 About HT Media | 	 Jobs   	 Contact Us  Copyright &copy; 2012 HT Media All Rights Reserved