Detroit takes precautions for marathon to avoid repeat of Boston bombings | The Detroit News           		  	           	   	       Continue Reading &raquo;   Advertisement      You will be redirected to the page you want to view in seconds.   	 	 		 		 	 	 		 ADVERTISEMENT 	   	 		   eEdition   Stay Connected    Facebook   Twitter   Mobile    Text Alerts   Newsletters   RSS     Customer Service    Customer Center   Subscribe   Pay Bill   Contact The Detroit News     Advertise    Digital Ads   Newspaper Ads   Political Ads   Classifieds   Death Notice      Shopping    Daily Deals   Grocery Coupons   Retail Circulars     Cars    New Cars   Used Cars   Dealer Print Ads   RVs + Bikes + Boats     Jobs    Job Search   Post Resume   Who's Hiring     Homes    For Sale   For Rent   Commercial     Classifieds    Pets   Goods   Services   Garage Sales   Legal Notices   All Classifieds     		 		 							 	 		 			         The Detroit News       Metro and State 				 Wayne County 									 				 					 				  				  				  				                    News          Metro Detroit + Michigan          Metro Detroit    	 Wayne County     Oakland County     Macomb County     Election 2013             Michigan     Government + Politics     Commuting     Schools                   Latest Updates          Nation + World     Religion     Obituaries             Science + Environment     Technology                  News Blogs         Michigan History     The Backroom                Sports          Sports          Lions + NFL     Pistons + NBA     Red Wings + NHL     Tigers + MLB     Scoreboards             Big Ten     Michigan State     University of Michigan     College                 High School     Golf     Motor Sports     More Sports                  Sports Blogs        Tigers     Lions     Pistons     Red Wings           Spartans     Wolverines     College Sports     High School               Business + Autos          Autos Insider          Chrysler     Ford     Drive             General Motors     Foreign                   Business          Personal Finance     Real Estate     Retail              Business + Autos Blogs         Overdrive     Daniel Howes     Joyrides                Entertainment + Lifestyle          Entertainment          Movies     Movie Finder     Restaurants + Bars     Visual Arts + Festivals     Event Calendar             TV + Radio     TV Listings     Celebrities     Books + Games                  Music     Theater + Dance + Comedy     Puzzles + Lottery     Comics                    Lifestyle          Homestyle     Food + Drink     Health + Fitness     Travel + Recreation     Advice              Entertainment + Lifestyle Blogs         Poptropolis     Geek Watch     Parenting     Ask The Pediatrician             Wine     Crafts     Travel                    Opinion          Editorials          Editorial Cartoons               Columnists             News + Opinion         Laura Berman     Nolan Finley     Neal Rubin           Sports     Terry Foster     John Niyo     Bob Wojnowski           Business + Autos     Doug Guthrie     Daniel Howes     Brian J. O'Connor           Entertainment + Lifestyle     Kate Lawson     Tom Long     Marney Rich-Keenan             Opinion Blogs         Nolan Finley     Politics                Multimedia          Video            Photo Galleries             News         News     Historic     Celebrities               Business + Autos     Autos     Joyrides     Concept Cars               Sports     Lions     Red Wings     Tigers     Pistons                Wolverines     Spartans     High School     Sports Sightings             Your Photos         Celebrate Michigan     Gardens     Joyrides     Weather     Game Face                	 	 	         	 		 			DealChicken: 50% off dog grooming packages at Tiny Paws Pet Grooming		 	       						 				 					 					 				 				 					 						 					 				 			 						 			 				 										  	 		  			 Home 			 Metro 			 Wayne County    		 October 16, 2013 at 6:37 pm 			 Detroit takes precautions for marathon to avoid repeat of Boston bombings 			 				  George Hunter   The Detroit News 				 				 				 Comments 								 			 	 	 		 			 								 	 		 			 Detroit — The terrorist attack that marred the Boston Marathon in April weighs on the minds of local law enforcement officials as Detroit prepares for its own race this weekend. Detroit Police are working with several law enforcement agencies, including Homeland Security and Windsor Police, to guard against a repeat of the Boston tragedy during Sunday’s Detroit Free Press-Talmer Bank Marathon. “In light of what happened in Boston with their marathon, we’re taking every precaution to make sure people will be safe,” Detroit Police Commander Renee Hall, head of the Downtown Services Section, said at a press conference Wednesday. Police Chief James Craig said he addressed similar concerns as the police chief in Cincinnati, which held its annual Flying Pigs Marathon a month after the Boston Marathon. “We were very much in contact with Boston, so a lot of the policies we enacted in Cincinnati will also be enacted here,” Craig said. “What happened in Boston raises your consciousness that we’re in a terrorist-rich environment, so we take precautions,” he said. Similar measures are put into place whenever large crowds gather, including Major League Baseball games and NFL football games, the chief added. “This is not new to Detroit,” Craig said. “It’s not an overwhelming challenge.” About 27,000 runners are expected to participate in the race, which kicks off at 6:58 a.m. and ends at 2:02 p.m., with more than 50,000 spectators lining the streets along the route, which stretches roughly from Belle Isle to Grand Boulevard, and across the Ambassador Bridge and Detroit-Windsor Tunnel into Canada. Thousands more are expected downtown for the 1 p.m. Detroit Lions game against the Cincinnati Bengals at Ford Field. For safety reasons, Craig didn’t disclose specific strategies or deployment of police officers Sunday, but said patrols will be stepped up during the race. He also said runners will not be allowed to carry bags. In light of the break-ins of several cars Saturday during the Making Strides Against Breast Cancer walk downtown, Craig reminded visitors to avoid leaving valuables in their vehicles. “People sometimes forget and leave their iPhones and laptops in plain view,” he said. “You can’t do that anywhere, whether you’re in Detroit or the suburbs.” 			 	 Road closures 	 Saturday 8 a.m. to noon: West Fort between Washington and Third (closed for through traffic; cross streets will be open.) Sunday 5-9 a.m.: Ambassador Bridge: (controlled traffic) 6:45-10 a.m.: Detroit-Windsor Tunnel (closed)  			 		 	  				 ghunter@detroitnews.com (313) 222-2134 			 		 		 			  	 		 			 			 Tweet 			 									 		 		 			 				 Email 				 Print 				 					 Share 					 						 							 								 								 LinkedIn 								 							 							 								 									 Tumblr 								 							 							 								 									 StumbleUpon 								 							 							 								 									 Reddit 								 							 							 								 									 Del.icio.us 								 							 							 								 									 Digg 								 							 						 					 				 			 			 				  				 A 								 A 				  			 		 	    			 			 		 			   	 		 			 Join the Conversation 		 		 The Detroit News aims to provide a forum that fosters smart, civil discussions on the news and events that we cover. The News will not condone personal attacks, off topic posts or brutish language on our site. If you find a comment that you believe violates these standards, please click the "X" in the upper right corner of the post to report it. 		 			 Policies 			 Community Policy 			 Privacy Policy 			 Terms of Service 		 	 	 		 	 	        		 More From Wayne County 	  		 				 				 3:46 pm 				 Bernard Kilpatrick sentenced to 15 months in prison for tax crime 				 				 Ex-Mayor Kwame Kilpatrick's father, Bernard, was sentenced Thursday afternoon to 15 months in prison for a single tax crime stemming from the City Hall corruption case. 				 			  		 			 				 1:00 am Napoleon touts crime fighting experience in campaign for Detroit mayor 				 1:04 pm Teen killed by friend in Detroit identified 				 6:39 pm Police: Woman, 63, home during burglary on Detroit's northwest side 			 		 		 			 				 5:30 pm Man at Detroit Citgo station shot after attack on two people 				 Wed, Oct 16 Report: Detroit's cash flow improves but remains 'dire' 				 Wed, Oct 16 Detroit police chief: Crime down 5.5% from same period last year 			 		 	   										 					 					 					 						 						 						 							 	 	 	  						 						 							 ADVERTISEMENT 						 					 												 						 	 	 		 ADVERTISEMENT 	  												         	 		 		 	 	 		 							 			 				 					 Macomb New Construction  					 					 						 $339,900 						 4 Bedrooms 2 Full Baths 1 Half Baths 3000 Sq. Ft. 						 Century 21 AAA North 						 Michael Blake 						 P (877) 759-1870 					 					 New construction- to be built! 4 bedrooms 3 1/2 baths with second floor laundry. this custom french country home is loaded with upgrades. gourmet kitchen with granite, deluxe master suite, abundant hardwood and tile, 3 car side entry garage. located on an interior lot in desirable macomb twp. we have other lots and subdivisions available. 				 			 			 				 					 Village Park of Royal Oak  					 					 						 From $1,305 Per Month 						 2 Bedrooms 1.5 Baths 						 						 via Apartments.com 						 (248) 556-3772 					 					 Roommate pricing from $550 each!village park of royal oak apartments in royal oak, mi offers spacious one-, two- and three-bedroom apartments for rent with energy-saving windows, updated kitchens and baths and whirlpool appliances including above the range microwaves.royal oak, michigan is a trendy, exciting and fun place to live and so is village park of royal oak apartments, with two convenient locations - one downtown and one near i-696 and i-75. apartment community amenities include a resort-class clubhouse, fitness center and pool with sun deck. our residents tell us they live at village park of royal oak apartments in royal oak, mi because: 1. two unique locations, one less than a mile from downtown royal oak and one less than a mile from i-75 2. resort-class swimming pool and hot tub 3. renovated kitchens including new cabinetry, upgraded whirlpool appliances, new countertops, energy-efficient lighting, above-the-range microwaves and wood vinyl flooring 4. 5,500 square foot multi-million dollar clubhouse with 24-hour fitness center, racquetball court, free wifi, business center and conference room 5. three spacious floor plans, 1, 2, and 3 bedroom apartment homes 6. walking distance to mark ridley's comedy castle, the royal oak music theater, royal oak farmer's market and much more 7. resident events led by on-site lifestyle director 8. 24-hour maintenance, snow removal and landscape care 9. pet-friendly 10. roommate rewards program which offers 50% off all your fees including security deposit with qualifying credit and roommate forgiveness recipient of the cel and associates a list award for customer service 				 			 			 				 					 Luxurious Up North Retreat  					 					 						 $799,000 						 4 Bedrooms 4 Full Baths 1 Half Baths ID# 285607-49735 On HomeFinder.com 06/29/13 						 REAL ESTATE ONE 						 Ellie McGovern 						 P (888) 442-2328 					 					 Spectacular Custom Home with 5 wooded lots on Lake Michaywe. Beautiful hardwood floors, 564 Sq. ft. Sun Porch, Gourmet Kitchen with breakfast nook and bar seating.. Massive Stone Fireplace in living room, formal dining room with private deck, and library. 				 			 			 				 					 Breathtaking South Haven Sunsets  					 					 						 $1,900,000 						 3 Bedrooms, 3.5 Baths, 3367 Sq. Ft., Year Built: 2008 						 Prudential Preferred Realtors 						 Terri Webb 						 P (866) 942-4908 					 					 Spectacular Home on South Haven's Prestigious North Beach with panoramic views of Beach,Lighthouses and Lake Michigan from almost every room! This home is an Entertainer's Delight offering Gourmet Kitchen, open floor plan and extraordinary outdoor living space. 				 			 			 				 					 St. Clair Riverfront Home  					 					 						 $299,000 						 4 Bedrooms, 2 Full Baths, 1656 Sq. Ft., Year Built: 1916 						 Premier Properties Inc 						 H. Joseph Joachim 						 P (810) 359-2010 					 					 Charming 2 story home on the St. Clair River. This is a must to see offering; boat dock, sloping lot, wrap around porch, matures trees, panoramic views, spacious family room with natural fireplace, large picture windows and much more! Great distinctive style! 				 			 			 				 					 Millender Center Condo  					 					 						 From $2,790 Per Month 						 2 Bedrooms 2 Baths 						 						 via Apartments.com 						 (313) 879-0219 					 					 At Millender Center you will have the opportunity to experience Detroit apartment living from two exciting points of view. Sitting in the comfort of your apartment home you can gaze out on endless views. the river, downtown skyline, sports stadiums, everything that make the city so exciting are spread out on the busy streets below. step outside the front doors and you are in the heart of the city. the casinos, Renaissance Center, riverside promenade, Greektown, Hart Plaza, sports venues, theaters, restaurants, and night clubs are all there for you to explore 24 hours a day. you are truly in the middle of everything the city has to offer. deluxe and premium style apartments available. 				 			 			 		 	 	 		 View more... 		 in Partnership with  	 	 					 					 					 				 			 			  	 	 	 Email this article 	 		 			 Detroit takes precautions for marathon to avoid repeat of Boston bombings 			 Detroit — The terrorist attack that marred the Boston Marathon in April weighs on the minds of local law enforcement officials as Detroit prepares for its own race this weekend. 			 A link to this page will be included in your message. 		 	 	 	 	 	   			 	 		 			 More from The Detroit News 		 	 	 		 						 Seen in the Photo Store  	   Purchase Detroit News images of historic events, scenes, places and people.  Go to the PhotoStore 		 		 			  Subscribe       			           Sign up for home delivery today  					 		 			 Follow Us On Twitter   Tweets by @detroitnews    Follow @detroitnews  		 		 			 The Detroit News Apps  Stay up to date on the go with the latest from The Detroit News apps  	 Our apps connect you with the best news, sports, auto and entertainment coverage from our team of award-winning journalists. 	 		 For iPhone and iPod Touch 		 For Android 	    		 		 			 Archives        Yesterday, Oct. 16       Tuesday, Oct. 15       Monday, Oct. 14       Sunday, Oct. 13       Saturday, Oct. 12       Friday, Oct. 11       Thursday, Oct. 10     See our paid archives for news older than a week.  		 	   					 		 		 						 		 	 		 	 	 		 ADVERTISEMENT 	  	 	 	 		         The Detroit News           News   Sports   Business   Autos   Entertainment   Lifestyle   Opinion   Photos   Video       Shopping   Rentals   Homes   Jobs   Cars                  615 W. Lafayette Blvd.    Detroit, MI 48226    (313) 222-2300            The Detroit News    Directory + Contacts    Jobs at The Detroit Media Partnership    Terms of Service    Privacy Notice    Ad Choices    Site Index    Newspapers In Education            Subscriber Services    Newspaper Subscriptions    Manage Account    Report a Delivery Issue    eEdition    Newsletters    Mobile      RSS            Advertise    Web + Mobile    Newspaper    Classifieds    Death Notices            Store    Photographs              Connect    Contact The Detroit News    Contact The Detroit Media Partnership     Facebook     Twitter    Google+        		    &copy; 2013 The Detroit News . All rights reserved.      A MediaNews Group Paper       Part of Detroit Media Solutions      		            Subscriptions               eEdition               Mobile               Text Alerts               Newsletter               RSS