Boston Marathon bombing suspect Tsarnaev pleads not guilty. - Free Online Library           Printer Friendly  22,138,757 articles and books    Periodicals  Literature       Keyword  Title  Author  Topic        Member login        User name    Password     Remember me   Join us Forgot password?          The Free Library &gt; Communications &gt; News, opinion and commentary &gt; The Daily Star (Beirut, Lebanon) &gt;  July 11, 2013   The Free Library &gt; General Interest/Informational &gt; General interest &gt; The Daily Star (Beirut, Lebanon) &gt;  July 11, 2013   The Free Library  &gt; Date >        2013 &gt;        July &gt;        11 &gt;      The Daily Star (Beirut, Lebanon)             Boston Marathon bombing suspect Tsarnaev pleads not guilty.  		 		 		  Summary: Boston Marathon Boston marathon famous 26-mile race held annually for long-distance runners. [Am. Pop. Culture: Misc.] See : Endurance bombing suspect Dzhokhar Tsarnaev, hisface swollen and his arm in a cast, pleaded not guilty to terrorismcharges Wednesday in his first courtroom appearance since his dramaticcapture in April. BOSTON: Boston Marathon bombing suspect Dzhokhar Tsarnaev, his faceswollen and his arm in a cast, pleaded not guilty to terrorism chargesWednesday in his first courtroom appearance since his dramatic capturein April. Tsarnaev, 19, smiled crookedly -- he appeared to have a jaw injury-- at his sisters as he arrived in court. He looked much as he did in aphoto widely circulated after his arrest, his hair curly and unkempt. Heappeared nonchalant, almost bored. He leaned toward a microphone and said, "Not guilty" in aRussian accent to 30 federal charges, including using a weapon of massdestruction weapon of mass destruction (WMD) Weapon with the capacity to inflict death and destruction indiscriminately and on a massive scale. The term has been in currency since at least 1937, when it was used to describe massed formations of bomber aircraft. to kill. He made a kissing motion toward his family as hewas led out of the courtroom. He could get the death penalty ifprosecutors choose to pursue it. The April 15 attack with a pair of pressure-cooker bombs near thefinish line of the country's most well-known marathon killed threepeople and wounded over 260. Authorities say Tsarnaev orchestrated or·ches·trate   tr.v. or·ches·trat·ed , or·ches·trat·ing , or·ches·trates 1. To compose or arrange (music) for performance by an orchestra. 2. theattack along with his older brother, Tamerlan, who died following a shootout Shootout Venture capital jargon. Refers to two or more venture capital firms fighting for the startup. with police three days after the bombing. Authorities say thebrothers of ethnic Chechen descent killed a police officer while theywere on the run. Dzhokhar Tsarnaev was arrested on April 19 when he was found hidingin a boat in a suburban backyard. He was initially charged in a hospitalwhere he was recovering from wounds suffered in a police shootout. Prosecutors say Tsarnaev, a Muslim, wrote about his motivations forthe bombing on the walls inside the boat where he was captured. He wrotethe U.S. government was "killing our innocent civilians." Tsarnaev's two sisters were in court Wednesday. One of themsobbed. His parents remained in Russia. About a dozen Tsarnaevsupporters cheered as his motorcade arrived, yelling, "Justice forJahar!" as Tsarnaev is known. One woman held a sign that said,"Free Jahar." Lacey Buckley, 23, said she had never met Tsarnaev but came becauseshe believed he was innocent. "I just think so many of his rightswere violated. They almost murdered an unarmed kid in a boat," shesaid. A group of Tsarnaev's friends waited in line outside thecourtroom for hours, hoping to get a seat. "Just knowing him,it's hard for me to face the fact that he did it," said HankAlvarez, 19, who called his friend calm, peaceful and apolitical a·po·lit·i·cal   adj. 1. Having no interest in or association with politics. 2. Having no political relevance or importance: claimed that the President's upcoming trip was purely apolitical. . "There was nothing sketchy about him," said anotherfriend, 20-year-old Shun Shun In Chinese mythology, one of the three legendary emperors, along with Yao and Da Yu, of the golden age of antiquity ( c. 23rd century BC), singled out by Confucius as models of integrity and virtue. Tsou, who added he had not formed an opinion onTsarnaev's guilt or innocence. Copyright 2013, The Daily Star. All rights reserved. Provided by Syndigate.info an Albawaba.com company   COPYRIGHT 2013 Al Bawaba (Middle East) Ltd.  No portion of this article can be reproduced without the express written permission from the copyright holder.  Copyright 2013 Gale, Cengage Learning. All rights reserved.            Reader Opinion       Title:   Comment:                        Article Details  	 Printer friendly 			 Cite/link  			 Email 	 Feedback   Publication: The Daily Star (Beirut, Lebanon)  Date: Jul 11, 2013  Words: 471 Previous Article: Reeling Cedars narrowly beaten by Egypt.  Next Article: Blast due to Hezbollah in Syria: March 14.  Topics:  Bombings   Marathons      		      Publications by Name Publications by Date Authors Literature   	 A-D 	 E-O 	 P-T 	 U-Z 	  before 1995   1995-1999   2000-2004   2005-2009 	 2010-   A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z  A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z   Terms of use |Copyright &copy; 2013 Farlex, Inc. | Feedback | For webmasters | Submit articles