Cambridge —
At around 3 a.m. Wednesday morning, Anne Hultgren deployed the bacteria.
A thick white fog filled the air at the MBTA’s Davis Square T station, rising slowly at first and then spreading quickly with the whoosh of a train sucking dirt and dead microbes down the platform.
Less than 20 minutes after the release, scientists from Northrop Grumman Corporation were analyzing flow charts with data sent back from biological weapons sensors placed in the T tunnels. The dust had reached Harvard Station within the span of just a few minutes, traveling mostly in the empty trains. Hultgren, a member of the Department of Homeland Security, was overseeing the testing of those sensors that will one day monitor the T for signs of biological terrorism.
“Mass transportation systems, with their open access, can be vulnerable to hazardous materials that could rapidly spread throughout the system and endanger hundreds of thousands of lives,” Hultgren said in a statement.  “A rapid alert from a detection system can locate and identify these materials and provide for immediate and appropriate response to protect people and contain the hazard.”
 
Nontoxic testing
Officials said bacillus subtilis – the bacteria released in tests on Aug. 29 and 30 – is harmless and has been approved for day-of-harvest use on produce as a bio-fungicide. Still, Hultgren said DHS opted to use a dead version of the material to assuage any concerns from MBTA riders with immune deficiencies that they would be exposed to a harmful agent. The material released was approximately 80 percent dust, Hultgren said.
Lynn Schoeff, Senior Director of Emergency Preparedness said the Cambridge Department of Public Health had been intensely involved with DHS and the MBTA’s partnership in the federal pilot program to prepare transit systems against a potential bioweapon attack. The Somerville Health Department has been coordinating with DHS and the MBTA as well, according to mayoral spokesman Tom Champion.
“We feel that these are safe and useful tests, and we feel that both state and federal officials have kept local agencies and the public well-informed,” Champion wrote in an e-mail.
Schoeff said the health department insisted on having open meetings with the public before the testing happened so people had the opportunity to become informed and ask questions. While the public health department doesn’t analyze any of the data in house, they are tasked with responding in the event of an emergency.

“When you go back to the anthrax scare in 2001, we were certainly very active with that as was every public health department in the country in that people were seeing white powder, and people were reporting white powder, and we would have to respond,” Schoeff said. “We work fairly closely with the Cambridge Police Department and the Fire Department of course because the CFD has their own hazmat team, and we would go in after that and work with the people and get their histories so we could follow up with them if we needed to.”
Citing bioterrorist attacks in Tokyo, London, Madrid, and Mumbai, Transit Police Deputy Chief Lew Best said it was important to be mindful of the past attacks on public transit systems although he emphasized that there was no present threat to the MBTA.
“What we’re doing here is more of a holistic approach. We have many layers of security in place here to protect the riding public and our critical infrastructure,” Best said, adding Transit Police officers, security cameras, and other measures were all part of the T’s security arsenal. “This is just one more layer of security to adjust our security posture. It’s a good example of how technology can be used to protect the riding public.”
Tunnel visions
Hultgren said the MBTA system was an appropriate testing ground for the bio-weapon sensor system because not only is it one of the oldest subway systems in the U.S., but unlike New York City’s subway, the T shuts down for a length of time every night.
“Trigger” and sensors have been in place since November of last year in Davis, Porter and Harvard stations to assess base-level conditions, Hultgren said, and airflow analysis across the entire T-system has been ongoing for several years. Additional sensors were put in place in Alewife the day of the tests. Each trigger costs approximately $10,000 - $15,000 and each confirmer is roughly $40,000, Hultgren said. The Department of Homeland Security funded the entire project, Best said.
Before last Wednesday’s test, Hultgren said their team of scientist from MIT’s Lincoln Labs and Northrop Grumman Corporation first released the dead bacteria and dirt without the presence of a moving train.
“We’re going to run some trains tonight – empty trains. Trains push material around very effectively and if something were to happen during rush hour, the trains would be a big part of how it moves,” Hultgren said, adding the absence of platforms packed with people was less of a concern. “Trains matter more than people. We’ll at least get to see the dominant effect.”

Each station is outfitted with two trigger sensors and one “confirmer” sensor, Hultgren said. The sensors monitor the air quality for an increase in the biological material above base-level conditions. If an alert is triggered, a second layer of detection performs a lab-grade analysis of the material on the spot and sends the results back to lab. At that point, scientists would be alerted and step in to double-check the results in an actual laboratory, Hultgren said.
The results of Wednesday’s test were clear – as soon as the train started towards the station, the air went from moving roughly 1-2 feet a second to about 10-20 feet a second.
Hultgren said the government still has another six months of testing ahead of them. They’ll be posting notices at each of the affected stations a day before the tests happen, she said, all in the hopes that they will be able to accurately model real-life conditions. Even if the tests were successful, they wouldn’t likely be fully installed for another year or two.
 “It’s interesting to see how all of these dynamics fit together because it helps us understand what’s going to happen if anything did happen,” Hultgren said.
