NICE Security Solutions deployed at Bangalore’s “Namma Metro” to Secure Millions of Passengers on India’s Rapid Transit Rail System

September 10, 2012  PDF Version
Railway system of India’s fastest-growing metropolitan area implements NICE IP video surveillance solutions to address operational, safety and security needs

 

Ra’anana, Israel, September 10, 2012, NICE Systems (NASDAQ: NICE) announced today that Bangalore Metro Rail Corporation Limited (BMRCL) has launched a successful go-live of NICE’s security solutions at Namma Metro. This includes full implementation at the train’s Operations Control Center (OCC) and across six metro stations.
 
Using NICE IP video surveillance and analytics, Namma Metro is enhancing passenger safety, securing its train lines, and ensuring efficient operations while also meeting the necessary compliance requirements. While BMRCL projects full operational capacity in 2014, Namma Metro is expected to serve 1.2 million passengers daily by 2013, with a capacity of 40,000 peak hour peak direction trips.
 
In addition to the advanced video management system monitoring the metro stations and depot areas, the solution being deployed includes video analytics to provide automatic intrusion detection for specified locations along the tracks and in restricted areas. It will also enable crowd control by monitoring overcrowding and queue wait time at the various stations. With NICE’s video analytics, any surveillance camera can be configured with many predefined functionalities, including operating within specific time ranges to help optimize resources and reduce TCO. The integrated NICE solution also enables system access by multiple agencies to facilitate collaboration between Namma Metro operators and the police.
 
“Partnering with NICE Systems by the telecommunication system integrator for BMRCL was critical due to its domain expertise in public safety and mass transit systems around the world,” said Mr. A. S. Shankar, Chief Engineer (S&T) at BMRCL. “Through the user acceptance testing process, NICE security solutions have met our requirement to provide the Bangalore Metro with seamless surveillance of the Metro railway stations and passengers, mitigating operational, safety and situational risk.”
 
“The completion of the first important milestone at BMRCL is a strong testament to the joint partnership and collaboration fostered between NICE and BMRCL," said Yaron Tchwella, Security President and EVP Business Operations at NICE. “Our deep understanding of the needs of the growing public transport market enables us to provide the best solution based on our unique technology. NICE will continue to focus on providing a holistic solution for targeted vertical markets and tailored for specific market needs.”
 
NICE’s business partner for the metro project is the Thales Group, which designs and builds mission-critical information systems for defense and security, aerospace and transportation.
 
The NICE Security Offering addresses the needs of governments and enterprises with intent-based solutions for fighting crime and terror, by anticipating, managing and mitigating safety, security and operational risks. The offering enables capturing, analysis and correlation of data from multiple sensors and systems, including audio, video, radio, geo-location and web, providing a framework for fusing data silos into a single, holistic operational view. NICE Security solutions empower organizations to act effectively in real time to prevent, manage and investigate incidents, ensuring fast resolution and debriefing, and continuous security improvements. NICE Security solutions are deployed worldwide in transportation systems, critical infrastructures, city centers and enterprise campuses. NICE deployments include solutions for securing the Beijing Metro, India’s Parliament House, Shanghai Pudong International Airport and other global icons such as the Eiffel Tower and the Statue of Liberty.
