Primitive traveller leaves Airports Authority of India red-faced
TNN Sep 1, 2012, 02.44AM IST

LUCKNOW: As passengers go, this was a rather unusual one. It had neither ticket nor boarding pass. It seemed to be carrying no luggage, nor, for that matter, wearing any clothes. Worse, its motives were highly suspect as it spread panic and fear among fellow passengers. It took security guards about 90 minutes to evict this unwanted traveller, a monkey which sneaked into the new terminal.

According to reports, it was around 9 am on Friday that passengers on the first floor saw this monkey sneaking from a window. Before this, the simian had initially climbed on to the roof top and started jumping. As passengers ran helter-skelter, some CISF jawans rushed to the first floor and scared the monkey away.


Left red-faced following the incident, officials of the Airports Authority of India (AAI) communicated the incident to the forest department. Airport director, Suresh Hota confirmed that they have informed the forest department to see that such incident did not happen in future. Airport sources said that the situation might have worsen had the monkey ran towards the runway, since it was the time when a host of flights were about to land and take off.

In fact, stray animals have often been spotted around the airport much to the inconvenience of the passengers and embarrassment of the officials.

The menace of animals and birds essentially rise during the rains. It was only last year, around the same time, that a dead animal lying on the runway delayed landing of couple of flights at the airport. As a practice, the airport authorities have been surveying the surrounding areas, often bursting crackers to chase away animals and birds.

Incidents of animals infiltrating the airport premises have not been uncommon.

In July 2010, a fire service officer posted at the airport was bitten by a snake. The same year, around 150 passengers and 12 crew members of a New Delhi-bound JetLite aircraft had a narrow escape after a bird hit one of its engines while the plane was at take off speed. In fact, one of side of the aircraft engine got badly damaged.
