
IAD is a an airport close to Washington DC. iad, airport
BWI, airport, test
Dulles International Airport (IAD).

Mark Smith International Airport

DCA is interesting. 

DCA is also a great airport.

The manchester airport is another one
But I like Beijing International Airport

Xian National Airport is good

Chen Ping is a professional
BWI is a good airport
PVG is another airport
Xian International Airport



















ites & shows: Search | Expelled teen charged in plot to bomb school 
He wanted 'more casualties than were suffered at Columbine,' Tampa police chief 
says Below: x Jump to text x Jump to discussion x Next story in 
News | Video: Anonymous tip foils Florida bomb plot Closed captioning of: 
Anonymous tip foils Florida bomb plot | >>> now we go to tampa , florida 
where police say they stopped a student who was angry over being expelled from 
pulling off a bombing plot at school that could have been worse than columbine. 
mark potter reports anonymous tip led tampa police to their suspect. >> 
reporter: police say in this quiet apartment complex in north tampa they found 
enough bomb making material, including shrapnel to kill a lot of people. >> 
we were probably able to thwart a potentially catastrophic event the likes of 
which the city of tampa has not seen and hopefully never will.
 >> reporter: arrested on felony bomb charges is 17-year-old jared cano 
 who was expelled for inappropriate behavior. on his facebook page he lists 
 one of hiss favorite quotes as lessons not learned in blood are soon forgotten. 
 police learned he planned to set up bombs next tuesday when classes begin. >> 
 there were two individual factuality members who were specific targets and 
 his desire to cause more casualties than were suffered at columbine. >> 
 reporter: during the column columbi columbine -- this time they were alerted 
 in advance. >> it's unfortunate to have a situation like this, 
 but it's fortunate that we stopped it. >> we like might not even show up to school,
  just to be safe. >> reporter: police say so far they believe cano acted alone 
  in his threat again the school. and school officials say they are trying to 
  contact all the parents now to assure them the school behind me is safe. 
  saying classes will still begin on tuesday, brian? >> mark potter in tampa , 
  florida for us tonight. mark, thanks msnbc.com staff and news service reports 
  updated 8/17/2011 7:16:36 PM ET 2011-08-17T23:16:36 Font: + -  — 
  Police on Wednesday said they had prevented an attack on a Tampa high school 
  after arresting an expelled student and discovering materials at his home to 
  make pipe bombs. More from TODAY.com Hurricane Irene zeroed in on land Saturday,
   losing some power but still threatening a catastrophic run up the East Coast
    as more than 2 million people were told to move to safer places to escape 
    the massive storm. "We were probably able to thwart a potentially 
    catastrophic event the likes of which the city of Tampa has not seen," 
    Tampa Police Chief Jane Castor told a news conference. Police named the suspect,
     who was detained and charged on Tuesday, as 17-year-old Jared Cano and said his
      target was Freedom High School. Castor said Cano, who was expelled from the
       school in 2010, had hoped "to cause more casualties than were suffered at Columbine" — 
       a reference to the 1999 massacre at a Colorado high school by two students who killed 12 peers and a teacher. Cano is believed to have acted alone, Castor added. Authorities said Cano has multiple juvenile arrests. Charges have included burglary, carrying a concealed weapon, altering serial numbers on a firearm and drug possession. All have been either dismissed or no action has been taken. Fuses, timers found Acting on a tip from an informant Tuesday morning, police learned that Cano had been planning his attack to take place on the first day of class next Tuesday, Castor said. Two faculty members were specifically targeted, she added. | | | Cano's mother, a math teacher at another Tampa high school, consented to a police search of the family home on Tuesday. Evidence found in the search included a "manifesto" with drawings of school rooms and statements apparently indicating his intention to carry out a deadly attack, authorities said. Police also found timing and fusing devices, and other material that could have been used to make a bomb such as fuel sources, shrapnel and plastic tubing, Castor said. "He was charged yesterday with threatening to throw, project, place or discharge a destructive device, possession of bomb-making materials and also cultivation of marijuana in his room, his house," she added. The prosecutors, in a hearing Wednesday, said Cano had admitted he had planned to bomb the school. Police bomb squad experts determined the quantity of materials found at the home was "capable of taking multiple lives," the Times reported. 'Dumbest thing ever!' on Facebook Cano wrote on his Facebook page Tuesday morning that "i jut [sic] did the dumbest thing ever!" He did not elaborate. "You can say that again," replied one friend on Wednesday morning. Another posted: "i can't believe you. i had to find all this out cause of the news? wow ... like i'm literally speechless." Among favorite quotations listed by Cano on Facebook is: "Lessons not learned in blood are soon forgotten." At the court hearing, Cano was interrupted by his lawyer, a public defender, when he started to speak. "I don't know what to say," the teen said initially, with his lawyer adding, "He doesn't want to say anything right now." The Times said the judge then asked if Cano wanted to say something unrelated to the charges. | | | "The plan wasn't...," the teenager said, but he was cut off by the lawyer who told him: "Don't say anything." The paper said Cano was due to go back to court on Sept. 5 for an arraignment. Cano's parents, who court records say were divorced in 1998, did not attend the court hearing. Freedom Principal Chris Farkas told reporters Wednesday that Cano was expelled in March 2010 for an incident tied to a police report in which Cano was accused of stealing a gun from a friend's grandfather. Police said Cano admitted the theft but complications in the case meant he was never sanctioned, the Times reported. He was not registered to attend classes at any local public school this upcoming school year. Farkas said threats are common in large schools, but most aren't real. After hearing that police confiscated fuel, shrapnel and other materials from Jared Cano's home, the principal said "fear set in." Farkas said Cano's plan may have been thwarted because the 17-year-old had been expelled from the school and would have been "red flagged" as soon as he stepped on campus. Reuters and The Associated Press contributed to this report. Sponsored links Discuss: “ ” Expand Collapse , Reply | | | You Most active discussions votes comments votes comments votes comments votes comments Related: | Most popular videos on TODAY Video Video Video Video More with , , , Search more sites: sites & shows: © 2011 msnbc.com Jump to video Anonymous tip foils Florida bomb pl... Jump to text Police on Wednesday said they had prevented an a... Jump to discussion Expelled teen charged in plot to bomb school Jump to related News