9:30AM Monday Aug 29, 2011 5,018 online now You are here: Search smh: Search in: Sydney collar bomb hoax: police name Australian suspect arrested in US Glenda Kwek August 16, 2011 Video feedback Use this form to: Ask for technichal assistance in playing the multimedia available on this site, or Provide feedback to the multimedia producers. Video feedback form Name Email Subject Comments   Video feedback Thank you. Your feedback was successfully sent. Video will begin in 5 seconds. Recommended Video settings What type of connection do you have? Video settings form Automatically detect my connection speed (recommended) 56K modem Home broadband (100+ Kb/s) Medium-speed broadband (300+ Kb/s) High-speed broadband (600+ Kb/s) Note: A cookie will be set to keep your preferences. Video settings Your video format settings have been saved. FBI arrest bomb hoax suspect NSW Police and the FBI arrest an Australian man in Kentucky suspected of the Madeleine Pulver bomb hoax. 50-year-old arrested in Kentucky home NSW police identify links to Pulver family 'Chain of circumstantial evidence' Extradition may take some time In an extraordinary breakthrough in an extraordinary case, a 50-year-old Australian man named as Paul "Doug" Peters has been arrested in the United States over the on Sydney schoolgirl Madeleine Pulver. Mr Peters, who police say does business in Australia and the US, was arrested near Louisville, Kentucky, about 5.30am AEST today (3.30pm on Monday Kentucky time) by an FBI SWAT team and two detectives from the NSW Robbery and Serious Crime Squad's Strike Force Haddon. Advertisement: Story continues below Madeleine Pulver on her way to school one week after her ordeal. Police have now made an arrest in the US. Photo: Nick Moir FBI special agent Elizabeth A. Fries, who named the man, said he had been staying at his ex-wife's house in Heather Green Boulevarde, La Grange, a town of 5000 people, 48 kilometres north-east of Louisville. Police confirmed the man, who they did not name in a Sydney briefing, had not been a suspect until he left Australia on August 8, after which he was placed under surveillance. Faces charges Madeleine Pulver ... 10-hour ordeal. Photo: Simon Alekna He is now in custody and will face a Louiseville court about 9.30am tomorrow morning (11.30pm AEST on Tuesday), when NSW Police will seek his extradition to Australia to face charges of aggravated breaking in and entering, and kidnapping, FBI and NSW Police officers said at a press conference in Kentucky. The fake bomb was attached to Ms Pulver's neck by a balaclava-clad intruder in her family's home at Mosman on Sydney's north shore on August 3. After 10 hours, during which police officers sat with the teenager while specialists worked on the device, the collar was found not to contain any explosives. Madeleine's father, Mr Bill Pulver, said today the family was "enormously relieved" that an arrest had been made. He thanked the police for their superb work during a "frightening" ordeal for the family. NSW Police Detective Superintendent Luke Moore speaks at the FBI building in Louisville. Photo: David R. Lutman, The Courier-Journal He said the family had been "humbled by the selflessness and generosity of those who wanted to help Maddie in any way they can". "This has been a baffling and frightening experience," Mr Pulver said. "It has tested us all but we have been overwhelmed by the love and support that we've received from family and friends, our neighbours, the school and the local community." View in a larger map He said at times the intense media interest in the case had been difficult but on the whole the media had been respectful and had portrayed Maddie as the vibrant young woman she was. He asked for privacy and said the family would make no further comment. NSW Police Assistant Commissioner Dave Hudson told a packed media conference in Sydney today that the suspect was surprised when he was confronted by police today. The house was still being searched, he added. Arrested ... Paul "Doug" Peters. The image has been pixelated for legal reasons. "A fairly detailed chain of circumstantial evidence led us to making the arrest ... it's fairly compelling," Mr Hudson said. Mr Peters, who flew between Australia and the United States for work and has family in both countries, had been living in Sydney for six weeks before August 3. While he declined to elaborate on what made police suspect Mr Peters, Mr Hudson said police were "confident that he is responsible for the crime" and that no other suspects were being sought. The bomb hoax was still being treated as an extortion attempt and Mr Peters had not been known to police before this case. Some connection with family Mr Peters had some connection to the Pulver family, but no "direct links". He was not believed to have been inside the Pulver home before. Mr Hudson would not comment on questions about whether Mr Peters had any business links with Mr Pulver, the chief executive of Appen Butler Hill, a linguistic software company that . "The ins and outs of motive are yet to be determined and that's part of our ongoing investigation," Mr Hudson said. "We will allege through the courts ... [he] was responsible for entering the Pulver home and placing the device around [Ms Pulver's] neck." He would not outline exactly how police came to identify Mr Peters and would not comment on whether his fingerprints were found on the device. Mr Hudson said the extradition process was "not an exact science" and it could take some time. 'True offence' He said police had treated the bomb hoax as a "true offence" from the beginning and Ms Pulver's statement helped them make the arrest. NSW Police Detective Superintendent Luke Moore, who flew to the US for the arrest, told the media in Kentucky that Mr Peters had family connections in Kentucky, and he had lived in the United States at one time. He said there was no evidence that Mr Peters' ex-wife was involved in the incident. She was not at the home when Mr Peters was arrested peacefully by the FBI SWAT team. "It was fairly normal. The FBI effected the arrest and I believe Mr Peters was the only person in the house at the time," Superintendent Moore said. "The arrest was done fairly swiftly and safely." Working with FBI A delighted NSW Police Commissioner Andrew Scipione praised his officers and those of the FBI. "They have worked with us [over] every request. ... They made our job just that little bit easier," he said. He added that this was a "very good day for the NSW Police Force" and, quoting the NSW Police motto, said: "Justice swiftly follows crime." Today's arrest came after reports a by police on the NSW central coast over the weekend. On Friday, police confirmed reports that investigators had a suspect, but had not spoken to the person yet. It followed a report Ms Pulver told police her attacker had " ". Shortly after the incident, it was also revealed that a with strict instructions and signed by fictional character Dick Struan from the 1966 novel Tai-Pan had been pinned to Ms Pulver, 18, during her ordeal. The Pulver family was based in New York for a few years from 2002 when Mr Pulver was president and chief executive of NetRatings, an audience ratings company. - with Stephanie Gardiner and AAP Join the conversation You're the only person reading this now. It's a fairly detailed chain of circumstantial evidence that has led us to making the arrest this morning.   Related Coverage Video Video Video Video 16 Aug Paul "Doug" Peters, the man arrested over the collar bomb hoax on Sydney ... 16 Aug Factbox on the US city of Louisville, Kentucky, where an Australian ... Top NSW articles NSW Topics (6541) (4445) (480) (319) (312) (247) (239) (217) (189) (181) (177) (170) (164) (153) (146) (145) (139) (134) (129) (128) (124) (120) (120) (115) (105) (104) (103) (100) (100) (99) (99) (97) (95) (93) (92) (87) (86) (85) (84) (83) (83) (82) (82) (81) (80) (79) (79) (77) (76) (74) (73) (72) (70) (70) (68) (67) (67) (64) (64) (63) (63) (62) (62) (59) (57) (57) (57) (56) (54) (53) (53) (53) (51) (51) (50) (50) (47) (47) (46) (46) (45) (45) (44) (44) (43) (42) (41) (41) (40) (40) (40) (40) (39) (39) (39) (38) (37) (37) Story Tools SMH Jobs More Related Coverage Video NSW Police and the FBI arrest an Australian man in Kentucky suspected of the Madeleine Pulver bomb hoax. Video Bill Pulver, the father of bomb hoax victim Madeleine, says he's relieved an arrest has been made over the attack. Video A 50-year-old Australian man is arrested just outside Louisville, Kentucky in relation to the Madeleine Pulver collar bomb hoax. Video Police arrest an Australian man in the US in relation to the Madeleine Pulver collar bomb hoax case. 16 Aug Paul "Doug" Peters, the man arrested over the collar bomb hoax on Sydney schoolgirl Madeleine Pulver, is listed as a resident of a five-bedroom, four-bathroom, three-car garage home on Heather Green Boulevard, La Grange, a town of 5000 people, 48 kilometres north-east of Louisville, Kentucky. 16 Aug Factbox on the US city of Louisville, Kentucky, where an Australian businessman has been arrested in connection to the neck bomb hoax case. A COMPUTER has been seized by police on the central coast in what is thought to be a breakthrough in the Maddie Pulver bomb hoax case. POLICE have ordered protection for the girl at the centre of last week's bizarre hoax bomb plot, fearing her attacker may be playing out scenes from a book in his extortion bid, it was reported last night. 10 Aug The 18-year-old victim of last week's fake bomb threat in Sydney is being heavily guarded amid fears her attacker might strike again. IN A long, typed note he left strict instructions for the terrified Madeleine Pulver, but placed no price on his demands, despite her family's immense wealth. THE father of Madeleine Pulver says the 18-year-old is using her impending final-year exams as a welcome distraction as she attempts to move on from her collar-bomb hoax ordeal. 4 Aug Specialist police have begun a minute search of streets surrounding the home of Madeleine Pulver where the Sydney student endured 10 hours strapped to what was believed to a bomb. She emerged, shy but smiling, from the family home to say she was OK. Flanked by her mother, Belinda, and shielded from the media throng by her older brother, Madeleine Pulver faced a world changed by her 10-hour ordeal strapped to a suspected bomb with a bike chain. 4 Aug The extortionist who left Sydney schoolgirl Madeleine Pulver attached to a fake bomb for 10 hours may have been an attention seeker, a security expert says. 16 Aug The father of Madeleine Pulver says he hopes the arrest of Australian man in the US is the beginning of the end of a "traumatic ordeal", but did not shed any light on whether or not he had business links with the suspect. 16 Aug Extremely honest, rambunctious, highly volatile and popular - that's how Paul Peters, the Australian arrested in the US over the Mosman bomb hoax, has been described by his former schoolmates and friend. Advertisement Selections Video Wilkie hands Gillard pokies deadline Pressure on Julia Gillard mounts as independent MP Andrew Wilkie threatens to withdraw support from the government. Coalition MPs express concern over Craig Thomson's wellbeing. Advertisement Featured advertisers Sponsored links Special offers Advertisement Advertisement Compare and Save Readers' most viewed Top 5 articles Top 5 articles Top 5 articles Top 5 articles Videos Sydney Morning Herald Products & Services Connect Classifieds Our Sites Our Partners Copyright © 2011 Fairfax Media